<pageclass class="#AA7592" subcaption="MTA-MySQL Module"></pageclass>

{{ModuleFunction|MTA-MySQL}}
Returns a table with information about a field in a query result. You can call repeatedly this function to return all the result fields, and when it reaches the end returns nil. You can also go to a specific field using [[/Modules/MTA-MySQL/mysql_field_seek.md|mysql_field_seek()]].

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
table mysql_fetch_field ( MySQLResult result )
</syntaxhighlight>
===Required arguments===
* '''result:''' A valid MySQL result

===Returns===
A table with information about a field with the following keys:
* '''name:''' The name of this field.
* '''org_name:''' If you used aliases in the query, the original name of the field.
* '''table:''' The table of this field.
* '''org_table:''' If you used aliases for the table, the original name of the table.
* '''length:''' The maximum length allowed by this field in the table definition.
* '''max_length:''' The maximum length of this field in all the result rows.
* '''not_null:''' True if the field can't be NULL (See [[/Modules/MTA-MySQL/mysql_null.md|mysql_null()]]).
* '''primary_key:''' True if the field is the table primary key.
* '''unique_key:''' True if the field value is unique.
* '''multiple_key:''' True if the field is part of a key.
* '''numeric:''' True if the field is numeric.
* '''blob:''' True if the field is a BLOB.
* '''unsigned:''' True if the field is unsigned.
* '''zerofill:''' True if the field is zero filled.
* '''type:''' A string representing the type of this field.

===Example===
'''Example 1:''' This example shows how to print the rows of a result set showing the field name.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local result = mysql_query(handler, "SELECT * FROM account") -- Execute the query
for result,row in mysql_rows(result) do -- Iterate through all the result rows
  mysql_field_seek(result, 1) -- Reset the field cursor to the first field
  for k,v in ipairs(row) do
    local field = mysql_fetch_field(result) -- Retreive the field data
    if (v ~= mysql_null()) then
      outputDebugString("row[" .. field["name"] .. "] = " .. v)
    else
      outputDebugString("row[" .. field["name"] .. "] = NULL")
    end
  end
end
mysql_free_result(result) -- Free the result
</syntaxhighlight>

==See also==
{{Modules/MTA-MySQL/Result_functions}}