<pageclass class="client" subcaption="GUI Class method"></pageclass>
 

This function allows creation of a GUI Button, which is a clickable item as part of GUI.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
buttonObject Button:Create ( float x, float y, float width, float height, string text, [ bool relative = false, element parent = nil ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''x:''' A float of the 2D x position of the GUI button on a player's screen.  This is affected by the ''relative'' argument.
*'''y:''' A float of the 2D y position of the GUI button on a player's screen. This is affected by the ''relative'' argument.
*'''width:''' A float of the width of the GUI button. This is affected by the ''relative'' argument.
*'''height:''' A float of the height of the GUI button. This is affected by the ''relative'' argument.
*'''text:''' A string of the text that will be displayed as a label on the button.

<!-- Only include this section below if there are optional arguments -->
===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''relative:''' This is whether sizes and positioning are relative.  If this is ''true'', then all x,y,width,height floats must be between 0 and 1, representing sizes relative to the parent.
*'''parent:''' This is the parent that the gui button is attached to.  If the ''relative'' argument is true, sizes and positioning will be made relative to this parent. If the ''relative'' argument is false, positioning will be the number of offset pixels from the parent's origin. If no parent is passed, the parent will become the screen - causing positioning and sizing according to screen positioning.

===Returns===
Returns a buttonObject if it was successfully created which then can use other methods, false otherwise.

==Example== 
This example creates an edit box alongside an "Output!" button.  When the button is clicked, it will output the message in the text box into the Chat Box.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEventHandler ( "onClientResourceStart", getResourceRootElement(),
    function( )
        --create a button object
        local button = Button:Create( 0.7, 0.1, 0.2, 0.1, "Output!", true );
        --Create a TextBox (formally edit box)
        textBox = TextBox:Create( 0.3, 0.1, 0.4, 0.1, "Type your message here!", true )
        textBox:MaxLength( 128 ) --the max chatbox length is 128, so force this

        -- and attach the outputTextBox function to the button
        button:AddOnClick( outputTextBox );
    end
)
--setup our function to output the message to the chatbox
function outputTextBox( )
        local text = textBox:Text( ) --get the text from the TextBox
        outputChatBox ( text ) --output that text
end

</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
[[/GUI_Classes.md|Back to GUI Classes page]]
{{GUI_Classes_allfunctions}}