{{ml_birc}}

This function can be used to strip out wanted IRC specific text features (bolding, colouring...).

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
string ircStrip ( string text, [ string options = "burc" ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''text:''' The wanted [[/string.md|string]] which is going to be stripped out it's text features.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
*'''options:''' A string representing the strip options. It is formed from single letters, each having it's own role in the final result.
**'''b:''' Strip out all '''bold''' text.
**'''u:''' Strip out all <u>underlined</u> text.
**'''r:''' Strip out all <span style="color:white; background:black;">reversed</span> text.
**'''c:''' Strip out all <span style="color:blue; background:orange;">coloured</span> text.
:By default all text features are removed.

===Returns===
Returns the stripped out version of the string if passed arguments were valid, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==
This example creates an ircbot called ''DummyBot'' makes it connect to a server and join a channel. Once joining the channel, bot will be echoing all IRC channel text to server log, stripping off all IRC specific text features.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function resourceStart ( )
    theBot = ircCreateBot ( "DummyBot" )
    ircConnect ( theBot, "irc.gtanet.com", 6667 )
end
addEventHandler ( "onResourceStart", getResourceRootElement ( getThisResource() ), resourceStart )

function event_ircOnConnect ( theBot )
    setTimer ( ircJoinChannel, 2000, 1, theBot, "#testchannel" )
end

function event_ircOnText ( theBot, channel, sender, message )
    outputServerLog ( "[IRC-ECHO] On " .. channel .. "; " .. sender .. ": " .. ircStrip ( message ) )
end
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{ml_birc functions}}