 
{{Server function}} 
<!-- Describe in plain english what this function does. Don't go into details, just give an overview -->
This function returns whether the access for the given right is set to true or false in the ACL.

==Syntax== 
<!-- NOTE: don't use 'special' names for variable names, e.g. you shouldn't be writing things like 'player player, vehicle vehicle', instead write something like 'player thePlayer, vehicle vehicleToGetInto'. This is less confusing and prevents the syntax highlighting being odd -->
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool aclGetRight ( acl theAcl, string rightName )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/acl.md|acl]]:getRight||}}
===Required Arguments=== 
<!-- List each argument one per line. This should be the argument's name as in the argument list above, NOT the argument's data type -->
*'''theAcl:''' The ACL to get the right from
*'''rightName:''' The right name to return the access value of.

===Returns===
<!-- Make this descriptive. Explain what cases will return false. If you're unsure, add a tag to it so we can check -->
Returns ''true'' or ''false'' if the ACL gives access or not to the given function. Returns ''nil'' if it failed for some reason, e.g. an invalid ACL was specified or the right specified does not exist in the ACL.

==Example== 
This example lets players check if an ACL group has access to something or not.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
--theACL examples: Admin, Default, Moderator
--theRight examples: command.debugscript, function.banPlayer

function aclRightCheck(player, command, theACL, theRight)
	if (theACL and theRight) then -- Make sure atleast two arguments were entered.
		local theACL = aclGet(theACL) -- If theACL exists then convert it into an ACL pointer from a string.
		if (theACL) then -- If the ACL was found.
			local theReturn = aclGetRight(theACL, theRight) -- Will return true if it was found in the ACL.
			outputChatBox("The ACL right was found and returned: "..tostring(theReturn), player, 0, 255, 0)
		else
			outputChatBox("The ACL you entered was not found to exist in the ACL file.", player, 255, 0, 0) -- When the ACL was not found.
		end
	else
		outputChatBox("You need to enter an ACL, and a right name.", player, 255, 0, 0) -- When 2 arguements weren't entered.
	end
end
addCommandHandler("aclgetright", aclRightCheck) -- When a player does the aclgetright command it calls aclRightCheck function above.
-- Example of use: /aclgetright Admin command.debugscript (this should return true)
-- Example of use: /aclgetright Default command.debugscript (this should return false)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
<!-- Change FunctionArea to the area that this function is in on the main function list page, e.g. Server, Player, Vehicle etc -->
{{ACL_functions}}