 
{{Server function}} 
<!-- Describe in plain english what this function does. Don't go into details, just give an overview -->
This function removes the given object (string) from the given ACL group. The object can be a resource or a player. See [[/aclGroupAddObject.md|aclGroupAddObject]] for more details.

==Syntax== 
<!-- NOTE: don't use 'special' names for variable names, e.g. you shouldn't be writing things like 'player player, vehicle vehicle', instead write something like 'player thePlayer, vehicle vehicleToGetInto'. This is less confusing and prevents the syntax highlighting being odd -->
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool aclGroupRemoveObject ( aclgroup theGroup, string theObjectString )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/aclgroup.md|aclgroup]]:removeObject||}}
===Required Arguments=== 
<!-- List each argument one per line. This should be the argument's name as in the argument list above, NOT the argument's data type -->
*'''theGroup:''' The ACL group to remove the object string from
*'''theObjectString:''' The object to remove from the ACL group

===Returns===
<!-- Make this descriptive. Explain what cases will return false. If you're unsure, add a tag to it so we can check -->
Returns ''true'' if the object existed in the ACL and could be remoevd, ''false'' if it could not be removed for some reason, ie. it did not exist in the given ACL group.

==Example== 
<!-- Explain what the example is in a single sentance -->
This example does...
<!-- Add the code below, an emphasis should be on making it clear, not optimized. You could provide two versions if you wish, one clear and well commented, the other optimized -->
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function deladm (playerSource, commandName, accountName)
	if accountName then --Make the script able to detect if a user is given.
		aclGroupRemoveObject (aclGetGroup("Admin"), "user."..accountName) --Removing the admin.
		outputChatBox ("ACL: Account '"..accountName.."' succesfully removed as admin.", playerSource) -- Giving you a messsage.
		outputChatBox ("ACL: Someone have removed you as admin.", accountName) -- giving the poor removed guy a message.
	else --Make the Syntax display.
		outputChatBox ("ACL: No account name specified.", playerSource)
		outputChatBox ("ACL: Syntax: /deladmin [accountName]", playerSource)
	end
end
addCommandHandler ("deladmin", deladm)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
<!-- Change FunctionArea to the area that this function is in on the main function list page, e.g. Server, Player, Vehicle etc -->
{{ACL_functions}}