{{Server function}}

This function adds an [[/account.md|account]] to the list of registered accounts of the current server.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP|This function is a static function underneath the Account class.|[[/Account.md|Account]].add ||}}
===Required Arguments=== 
<!-- List each argument one per line. This should be the argument's name as in the argument list above, NOT the argument's data type -->
*'''name:''' The name of the account you wish to make, this normally is the player's name.
*'''pass:''' The password to set for this account for future logins.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''allowCaseVariations:''' Whether the username is case sensitive (if this is set to true, usernames "Bob" and "bob" will refer to different accounts)

===Returns===
Returns an [[/account.md|account]] or ''false'' if the account already exists or an error occured.

===Limits===
*'''name:'''
** Minimal account name length is 1 character.
** Account names are case-sensitive.
** Account name can not be equal to "*****"
*'''pass:'''
** Minimal account password length is 1 character.
** Maximum account password length is 30 characters.
** Account password can not be equal to "*****"

==Example== 
'''Example 1:''' This enables players to register on your server by using /register <password> in the chat window.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function registerPlayer ( source, commandName, password )
	-- Check if the password field is blank or not (only blank if they didnt enter one)
	if ( password ~= "" and password ~= nil ) then
		--Attempt to add the account, and save its value in a var
		local accountAdded = addAccount( getPlayerName(source), password )
		if ( accountAdded ) then
			--  Tell the user all is done
			outputChatBox ( "Thank you " .. getPlayerName(source) .. ", you're now registed, you can login with /login", source )
		else
			-- There was an error making the account, tell the user
			outputChatBox ( "Error creating account, contact the server admin", source )
		end
	else
		-- There was an error in the syntax, tell the user the correct syntax.
		outputChatBox ( "Error creating account, correct syntax: /register <password>", source )
	end
end
addCommandHandler ( "register", registerPlayer ) -- add the command handler
</syntaxhighlight>

'''This code differs by allowing the user to change their username that they wish to use.'''

'''Example 2:''' This enables players to register on your server by using /register <username> <password> in the chat window.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function registerPlayer ( source, commandName, username, password )
        if(password ~= "" and password ~= nil and username ~= "" and username ~= nil) then
                local accountAdded = addAccount(username,password)
                if(accountAdded) then
                        outputChatBox("Thank you " .. getPlayerName(source) .. ", you're now registed, you can login with /login",source)
                else
                        outputChatBox("Error creating account, contact the server admin.",source)
                end
        else
                outputChatBox("Error creating account, correct syntax: /register <nick> <pass>",source)
        end
end
addCommandHandler ( "register", registerPlayer ) -- add the command handler
</syntaxhighlight>

'''Example 3:''' This code differs again so the user can only register once /register <username> <password>.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local bRegisteredOnce = false

function registerPlayer ( source, commandName, username, password )
        if(password ~= "" and password ~= nil and username ~= "" and username ~= nil and bRegisteredOnce == false) then
                local accountAdded = addAccount(username,password)
                if(accountAdded) then
                        outputChatBox("Thank you " .. getPlayerName(source) .. ", you're now registed, you can login with /login",source)
                        bRegisteredOnce = true
                else
                        outputChatBox("Error creating account, contact the server admin.",source)
                end
        else
                if bRegisteredOnce == true then
                    outputChatBox("You already registered on this server!",source)
                else
                    outputChatBox("Error creating account, correct syntax: /register <nick> <pass>",source)
                end
        end
end
addCommandHandler ( "register", registerPlayer ) -- add the command handler
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
<!-- Change FunctionArea to the area that this function is in on the main function list page, e.g. Server, Player, Vehicle etc -->
{{Account_functions}}

[[/ar:addAcount.md|ar:addAcount]]
[[/es:addAcount.md|es:addAcount]]
[[/ru:addAccount.md|ru:addAccount]]
[[/pl:addAccount.md|pl:addAccount]]