 
{{Server function}}
This function will add a [[/ban.md|ban]] for the specified IP/username/serial to the server.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
ban addBan ( [ string IP, string Username, string Serial, player responsibleElement, string reason, int seconds = 0 ] )         
</syntaxhighlight>
'''Note:''' One of the three: IP, Username or Serial have to be specified.

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''IP:''' The IP to be banned. If you don't want to ban by IP, set this to ''nil''.
'''or'''
*'''Username:''' The [http://community.mtasa.com/ MTA Community] username to be banned (now obsolete). If you don't want to ban by username, set this to ''nil''.
'''or'''
*'''Serial:''' The serial to be banned. If you don't want to ban by serial, set this to ''nil''.
''' or any combination.'''

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''responsibleElement:''' The element that is responsible for banning the IP/username/serial. This can be a player or the root ([[/getRootElement.md|getRootElement]]()).
*'''reason:''' The reason the IP/username/serial will be banned from the server.
*'''seconds:''' The amount of seconds the player will be banned from the server for. This can be 0 for an infinite amount of time.

===Returns===
Returns the new [[/ban.md|ban]] if the IP/username/serial was banned successfully, ''false'' if invalid arguments are specified.

==Example==
This example bans a player's IP with the reason "Requested" when they type "/ban-me".
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function banMe ( source, command ) -- The function header and where source is defined
	local ipToBan = getPlayerIP ( source ) -- Get the player's IP
	addBan ( ipToBan, nil, nil, source, "Requested" ) -- Ban him with the reason; Requested
end
addCommandHandler ( "ban-me", banMe ) -- Make it trigger when a player types "/ban-me"
</syntaxhighlight>

==Example 2==
This example add command to ban player serial.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function banSerial( source, command, noob, reason )
   if ( noob ) then
      local theNoob = getPlayerFromName( noob )
      if ( theNoob ) then
         local theNoobSerial = getPlayerSerial( theNoob )
         addBan( nil, nil, theNoobSerial, source, reason )
      end
   end
end
addCommandHandler( "ban-serial", banSerial )
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Admin functions}}
[[/ru:addBan.md|ru:addBan]]