
{{Server client function}}
{{Disabled|This function doesn't exist. See the bugtracker for updates and more information.}}
Sets the current animation of a player or ped.  Not specifying the type of animation will automatically cancel the current one.

<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool blendPedAnimation ( ped thePed [, string block, string name, float speed=1.0, float blendSpeed=1.0, float startTime=0.0, bool loop=true, bool updatePosition=true, bool interruptable=false, function callbackFunction=nil, var arguments, ... ] )
</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
*'''thePed:''' the player or ped you want to apply an animation to.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
*'''block:''' the [[/Animations.md|animation]] block's name.
*'''anim:''' the name of the [[/Animations.md|animation]] within the block.
*'''speed:''' the speed at which the animation is played.
*'''blendSpeed:''' the speed at which the previous and current animation are blended.
*'''startTime:''' how far into the animation (in seconds) you want to skip
*'''loop:''' indicates whether or not the animation will loop.
*'''updatePosition:''' will change the actual coordinates of the ped according to the animation. Use this for e.g. walking animations.
*'''interruptable:''' If set to 'false', the animation will not be interrupted by other tasks (eg: falling)
*'''callbackFunction:''' A function that is called when the animation is finished
*'''arguments:''' Any arguments you want to pass to the callbackFunction, eg: animation name
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if succesful, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This example creates a ped, rotates them, and makes them walk:
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function makePed()
   ped1 = createPed(56, 1, 1, 4)
   setPedRotation(ped1, 315)
   blendPedAnimation(ped1, "ped", "WOMAN_walknorm")
end
addEventHandler("onClientResourceStart", getResourceRootElement(), makePed)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Issues==
{{Issues|
{{Issue|4511|blendPedAnimation "unhandled win32 exception" if blendPedAnimation(getLocalPlayer()) is called as callback function}}
}}

==See Also==
{{Ped_functions}}