 
{{Server client function}}
This function will blow up a vehicle. This will cause an explosion and will kill the driver and any passengers inside it.

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool blowVehicle ( vehicle vehicleToBlow, [ bool explode=true ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/vehicle.md|vehicle]]:blow|blown|isVehicleBlown}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''vehicleToBlow:''' the vehicle that you wish to blow up.
===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''explode:''' if this argument is ''true'' then the vehicle will explode, otherwise it will just be blown up silently.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool blowVehicle ( vehicle vehicleToBlow )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/vehicle.md|vehicle]]:blow}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''vehicleToBlow:''' the vehicle that you wish to blow up.
</section>
===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the vehicle was blown up, ''false'' if invalid arguments were passed to the function.

==Example== 
<section name="Example 1: Server and client" class="both" show="true">
This example will blow up every vehicle in the game.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
vehicles = getElementsByType ( "vehicle" )
for vehicleKey, vehicleValue in ipairs(vehicles) do
	blowVehicle ( vehicleValue )
end
</syntaxhighlight>

It is worth noting that the same could be achieved with the following:
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
blowVehicle ( root ) -- root (getRootElement) is a built in MTA variable and therefore we do not have to define it.
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="Example 2: Server" class="server" show="true">
This example will blow a player's vehicle when he enters the car, like a carbomb.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
riggedVehicle = createVehicle(445, 0, 0, 5)
function blowVehicleEnter ( thePlayer, seat, jacked )
	--ENGINE START BOMB. 
	if seat == 0 then --check if the seat the player got into was id 0 - i.e. driver seat
		blowVehicle ( source ) --if it was, toast him
	end
end
addEventHandler ( "onVehicleEnter", riggedVehicle, blowVehicleEnter ) --trigger the function when a certain vehicle is entered
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Client Class Example==
'''Heads up!''' Client classes only work on '''MTA 1.4''', therefore we highly recommend you to visit [[/Client_Scripting_Classes.md|Client Scripting Classes]] first.
<section name="Example 1: Client" class="client" show="true">
This script will create an Infernus at the center (0, 0, 3) of San Andreas upon execution.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEventHandler( "onClientResourceStart", resourceRoot,
    function()
        infernus = Vehicle.create( 411, Vector3( 0, 0, 3 ) ); -- Create an Infernus and spawn it at the middle of SA.
        infernus:setColor( 0, 0, 0 ); -- Set its color to black.
    end)
	
addCommandHandler( "blowinfernus",
    function()
        if not infernus.blown then -- Check if the Infernus is blown up or not.
            infernus:blow();
        else -- Ouch, it's blown up, let's output an error to the client.
            outputChatBox( "The Infernus has already been blown up by you.", 255, 0, 0, false );
        end
    end)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Vehicle_functions}}