== Weapon Creation ==
Weapon creation is a branch for creating weapon elements which can fire bullets and do not require ped/players assigned to them.
{| class="wikitable" style="width: auto; table-layout: fixed;"
|-
|'''Status'''
|<span style="color:green">Merged - 1.3.1</span>
|-
|'''Branch'''
|[https://github.com/multitheftauto/mtasa-blue/tree/weapon-creation Weapon-Creation]
|-
|'''Branch version'''
|1.4
|}

=== Functions ===
{{Client_weapon_creation_functions}}

=== General Notes ===
Created entities are for all intent and purpose objects so any object function will work on them like attachElements, setElementAlpha and such.

=== Media ===
* http://youtu.be/LN1nZZnzlms

== Custom Animations ==
Custom Animations is a branch for loading animations from .ifp files
{| class="wikitable" style="width: auto; table-layout: fixed;"
|-
|'''Status'''
|<span style="color:red">Abandoned</span>
|-
|'''Branch'''
|[https://github.com/multitheftauto/mtasa-blue/tree/Custom-Animations Custom-Animations]
|-
|'''Branch version'''
|1.4
|}

=== Functions ===
* [[/engineLoadIFP.md|engineLoadIFP]]
* [[/engineUnloadIFP.md|engineUnloadIFP]]

=== Media ===
* http://youtu.be/D9YfVPiJniU

=== General Notes ===
See [[/User:Cazomino05.md|User:Cazomino05]] for bugs.

== Custom Weapon Stats ==
Custom Weapon Stats is a branch to allow people to edit one of each weapons "properties" for each skill level
so for example an M4 at Pro level can have 1000 damage and an M4 at standard level can have 0.

{| class="wikitable" style="width: auto; table-layout: fixed;"
|-
|'''Status'''
|<span style="color:green">Merged - 1.3.1</span>
|-
|'''Branch'''
|[https://github.com/multitheftauto/mtasa-blue/tree/Custom-Weapon-Stats Custom-Weapon-Stats]
|-
|'''Branch version'''
|1.4
|}

=== Functions ===
* [[/getWeaponProperty.md|getWeaponProperty]]
* [[/setWeaponProperty.md|setWeaponProperty]]

=== Media ===
* http://youtu.be/M1dQWpDFq98
* http://youtu.be/xfdEvpcuk7s
* http://youtu.be/eDU06fZiU9M

=== General Notes ===
None.

== Analog Control States ==
Analog Control States is a branch that is designed to allow proper setting and management of controls and therefore allows for setting of controls to be between the range of 0 and 1 rather than true/false

This only works for certain properties such as left/right

{| class="wikitable" style="width: auto; table-layout: fixed;"
|-
|'''Status'''
|<span style="color:green">Merged - 1.3.1</span>
|-
|'''Branch'''
|[https://github.com/multitheftauto/mtasa-blue/tree/Analog-Control-States Analog-Control-States]
|-
|'''Branch version'''
|1.4
|}

=== Functions ===
* [[/setAnalogControlState.md|setAnalogControlState]]
* [[/getAnalogControlState.md|getAnalogControlState]]

=== Media ===
None.

=== General Notes ===
None.

== Custom-Vehicle-Sirens ==
Custom Vehicle Sirens allows adding sirens to any individual vehicle in the game for instance to add an undercover sultan.

{| class="wikitable" style="width: auto; table-layout: fixed;"
|-
|'''Status'''
|<span style="color:green">Merged - 1.3.1</span>
|-
|'''Branch'''
|[https://github.com/multitheftauto/mtasa-blue/tree/Custom-Vehicle-Sirens Custom-Vehicle-Sirens]
|-
|'''Branch version'''
|1.4
|}

=== Functions ===
* [[/SetVehicleSirens.md|SetVehicleSirens]]
* [[/GetVehicleSirens.md|GetVehicleSirens]]
* [[/RemoveVehicleSirens.md|RemoveVehicleSirens]]
* [[/GetVehicleSirenParams.md|GetVehicleSirenParams]]
* [[/AddVehicleSirens.md|AddVehicleSirens]]

=== Media ===
* http://youtu.be/zjJdLCtKccA
* http://youtu.be/ZJDrVf3qSm0
* http://youtu.be/1J0_v85FioA
* http://youtu.be/X3zE6hZOx4c

=== General Notes ===
None.

== Custom-Train-Tracks ==
See the main page for this branch ([[/Custom Train Tracks.md|Custom Train Tracks]]) for more information.
{{:Custom_Train_Tracks}}

== Awesomium ==
Possibility to create ingame browser.

{| class="wikitable" style="width: auto; table-layout: fixed;"
|-
|'''Status'''
|<span style="color:green">Merged - 1.5</span>
|-
|'''Branch'''
|[https://github.com/multitheftauto/mtasa-blue/tree/awesomium Awesomium]
|-
|'''Branch version'''
|1.5
|}

=== Functions ===
See [[/User:Jusonex.md|User:Jusonex]].

=== Media ===
* http://youtu.be/9w2qU6mZDh8
* http://youtu.be/qvqc1ScZSbM
* http://youtu.be/cyUw1F6uBig

=== General notes ===
See [[/User:Jusonex.md|User:Jusonex]].

[[/Category: Development.md|Category: Development]]