{{Useful Function}}
<lowercasetitle/>

This function allows you to call any clientside function from the server's side. Of course only those which are available clientside. It doesn't matter if it's a MTA function, a Lua standard function or a custom function.
<br /><br />
Numbers are automatically converted to a string and vice versa clientside to avoid data being lost. If you don't need this feature just delete it.
<br /><br />
'''Important Note:''' Bear in mind that the funcname has to be a '''string'''! Avoid using callClientFunction in the serverside onResourceStart-event since the client did not add the event handler onServerCallsClientFunction yet.

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
* '''client''': The element of the player who should be affected.
* '''funcname''': The name of the function that should be called clientside. May also be a function in a table, e.g. "math.round".

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
* '''arg1-argn''': The arguments that should be passed to the function.

==Code==
<section name="Serverside Script" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function callClientFunction(client, funcname, ...)
    local arg = { ... }
    if (arg[1]) then
        for key, value in next, arg do
            if (type(value) == "number") then arg[key] = tostring(value) end
        end
    end
    -- If the clientside event handler is not in the same resource, replace 'resourceRoot' with the appropriate element
    triggerClientEvent(client, "onServerCallsClientFunction", resourceRoot, funcname, unpack(arg or {}))
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Clientside Script" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function callClientFunction(funcname, ...)
    local arg = { ... }
    if (arg[1]) then
        for key, value in next, arg do arg[key] = tonumber(value) or value end
    end
    loadstring("return "..funcname)()(unpack(arg))
end
addEvent("onServerCallsClientFunction", true)
addEventHandler("onServerCallsClientFunction", resourceRoot, callClientFunction)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Example==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example sets the player's minute duration.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- define the onPlayerJoin handler function
function onPlayerJoin()
    -- set the minute duration
    callClientFunction(source, "setMinuteDuration", 10000)
end
-- add the event handler
addEventHandler("onPlayerJoin", root, onPlayerJoin)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

Author: NeonBlack

==See Also==
{{Useful_Functions}}