
{{Server client function}}
Stops a latent event from completing

==Syntax==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool cancelLatentEvent( player thePlayer, int handle )
</syntaxhighlight>
===Required Arguments===
*'''thePlayer:''' The player who is receiving the event.
*'''handle:''' A handle previous got from [[/getLatentEventHandles.md|getLatentEventHandles]].
</section>

<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool cancelLatentEvent( int handle )
</syntaxhighlight>
===Required Arguments===
*'''handle:''' A handle previous got from [[/getLatentEventHandles.md|getLatentEventHandles]].
</section>

===Returns===
Returns a true if the latent event was successfully cancelled, or false if it was not

==Example==
<section name="Example 1 - 1/2" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Cancel triggerLatentServerEvent directly after execution.
addCommandHandler("cancelLatentEvent",
function ()
	triggerLatentServerEvent("exampleEvent",3000,false,localPlayer)

	-- Get all your active handles, when you executed the command: /cancelLatentEvent
	local handles = getLatentEventHandles() -- Returns a table.

	local handle = handles[#handles] -- Get the latest handle.

	if cancelLatentEvent(handle) then -- Cancel it!
		outputChatBox("Successfully cancelled!",0,200,0)
	end
end)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="Example 1 - 2/2" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEvent("exampleEvent",true)
addEventHandler("exampleEvent",root,
function ()
	outputChatBox("Warning! The triggerLatentServerEvent wasn't cancelled!",client,255,0,0) -- warn the user.
end)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>


<section name="Example 2" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Cancel all my triggerLatentClientEvent's.
addCommandHandler("cancelLatentEvents",
function (player)

	-- Get all active handles from the player that executed the command: /cancelLatentEvents
	local handles = getLatentEventHandles (player) -- Returns a table. 
	
	for index=1,#handles do -- Loop through the table.
		local handle = handles[index]
		cancelLatentEvent(player,handle) -- Cancel it!
	end
end)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Example 3" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Cancel all my triggerLatentServerEvent's.
addCommandHandler("cancelLatentEvents",
function ()

	-- Get all your active handles, when you executed the command: /cancelLatentEvents
	local handles = getLatentEventHandles () -- Returns a table. 
	
	for index=1,#handles do -- Loop through the table.
		local handle = handles[index] 
		cancelLatentEvent(handle) -- Cancel it!
	end
end)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|1.3.0-9.03772|1.3.0-9.03772|}}

==See Also==
{{Event functions}}