{{Changelogs}}

== Main Additions / Changes ==
* Localization of MTA's menus
* [[/OOP.md|OOP]] classes
* [[/Matrix.md|Matrices]] and [[/Vector.md|Vectors]]
* Significantly improved train synchronization
* Improved all sound functions to work with player elements

== Scripting ==

=== Scripting: New functions ===

====Client====
* [[/createEffect.md|createEffect]]
* [[/setEffectSpeed.md|setEffectSpeed]]
* [[/getEffectSpeed.md|getEffectSpeed]]
* [[/setEffectDensity.md|setEffectDensity]]
* [[/getEffectDensity.md|getEffectDensity]]
* [[/getLocalization.md|getLocalization]]
* [[/isChatVisible.md|isChatVisible]]
* [[/downloadFile.md|downloadFile]]
* [[/isTrainChainEngine.md|isTrainChainEngine]]

==== Server ====
* [[/isBan.md|isBan]]
* [[/setBanAdmin.md|setBanAdmin]]
* [[/setBanReason.md|setBanReason]]
* [[/setUnbanTime.md|setUnbanTime]]
* [[/getAccountsBySerial.md|getAccountsBySerial]]
* [[/getAccountSerial.md|getAccountSerial]]

==== Shared (''Client & Server side'') ====
* [[/isElementWaitingForGroundToLoad.md|isElementWaitingForGroundToLoad]]
* Added additional optional parameter bInstant to setPlayerMoney to instantly set the money without counting up/down
* Fixed toJSON/fromJSON not handling binary data properly

=== Scripting: New Events ===

==== Client ====
* [[/onClientFileDownloadComplete.md|onClientFileDownloadComplete]]

==== Server ====
* [[/onWeaponFire.md|onWeaponFire]]

=== Scripting: Changes, Bugfixes and Additions ===
* Fixed getResourceConfig() not working on foreign resources
* Fixed the Brown Streak Carriage (ID: 570)
* Changed attachTrailerToVehicle to support trains

== Client ==

=== Client: Additions ===
* Distinguish between left and right Shift, Ctrl and Alt presses.
* Added SettingHUDMatchAspectRatio, SettingAspectRatio to dxGetStatus.
* Added support for the use of [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opus_codec Opus Codec] audio files in playSound and playSound3D.

=== Client: Bugfixes & Changes ===
* Fixed the money "counts down" GTA-Style when you change a server.
* Fixed peds being invulnerable to gun fire when doing a drive by.
* Fixed onClientPlayerDamage not triggering for spray can.
* Satchels should now be removed on [[/resetMapInfo.md|resetMapInfo]].
* Fixed getPedMoveState returns false when moving in crouch state
* Fixed guiScrollPaneGetVerticalScrollPosition returning strange and stepped values.
* Fixed setPedCameraRotation not working.
* Fixed peds continuing to fire their weapons after running out of ammo.
* Fixed radio titles not always showing.
* Fixed radio music skipping when browsing between different channels.
* Fixed user track skip (F5) being disabled.
* Fixed vehicles falling through the map.

== Server ==

=== Server: Additions ===
* [[/setElementDimension.md|setElementDimension]] should now apply to children
* More descriptive module error messages
* Commands: unloadmodule and reloadmodule
* Added server side custom weapons.

=== Server: Bugfixes & Changes ===
* Fixed 128 character limit in [[/setAccountData.md|setAccountData]]
* Wildcard bans should now be checked properly on connect
* Fixed Team members not being sent to clients if set in [[/onResourceStart.md|onResourceStart]].

== Resources ==
* None yet

== Editor ==
* None yet

== Extra information ==
''More detailed information available on [https://bugs.multitheftauto.com/changelog_page.php Bug tracker Changelog] and Google Code repositories:
:* [https://code.google.com/p/mtasa-blue/source/list MTA: SA Blue]
:* [https://code.google.com/p/mtasa-resources/source/list MTA: SA Official Resources]

[[/pl:Changes_in_1.4.md|pl:Changes_in_1.4]]
[[/pt-br:Novidades_na_versão_1.4.0.md|pt-br:Novidades_na_versão_1.4.0]]
[[/ru:Changes_in_1.4.0.md|ru:Changes_in_1.4.0]]

[[/Category:Changelog.md|Category:Changelog]]
[[/Category:Changes in 1.4.md|Category:Changes in 1.4]]