{{Warning|This page is not finished, for Windows go [[/Client_Manual.md|here]], and for Linux go [[/Client_on_Linux_Manual.md|here]].|true}}
==Before you start==

First of all, please ensure your computer fits the requirements needed.
Read the [[/Client_Manual.md|Client Manual]] page for further informations, or join us on IRC @ irc://irc.multitheftauto.com/mta

===Requirements===
The hardware requirements for Multi Theft Auto: San Andreas are the same than on Windows.
For software requirements, you need:
* Wine (get it on your package manager (synaptic, apt, pacman, yum etc.); click [http://tinyurl.com/installWine1-3 here] if you're using Ubuntu
* Windows fonts installed:
** tahoma.ttf
** tahomabd.ttf
** verdana.ttf
Get them on the Internet, e.g. [http://fontonic.com/ fontonic.com]

Or get the zip archive with the 3 fonts here: [http://www.4shared.com/zip/IsErUbQAba/wine_mta_fonts.html wine_mta_fonts.zip]

Install them in: <code>~/.wine/dosdevices/c:/windows/Fonts/</syntaxhighlight>
(~/ points to your user home folder on Linux)

==Installing the game==
Download the MTA installer from [http://www.mtasa.com mtasa.com], ensure you can launch it (chmod +x) then install it when you want.

==Running the game==
Once installed, double-clicking on the Multi Theft Auto.exe should work. If not, try in a terminal the following command: "wine Multi Theft Auto.exe" in the directory you installed Multi Theft Auto to.
If it doesn't work, check the contents of the file c:/Program_Files/Multi Theft Auto/MTA/CEGUI.log, which may contain useful information.

== See Also ==
* [[/Client_on_Linux_Manual.md|Client on Linux Manual]] - For somewhat relevant information.
* [http://nightly.mtasa.com/ nightly.mtasa.com] - For nightly builds.

[[/Category:Support.md|Category:Support]]