 
{{Server function}}
This function clones (creates an exact copy of) an already existing element. The root node, and player elements, cannot be cloned. If a player element is a child of an element that is cloned, it will be skipped, along with the elements that exist as a child to the player element.

Players are not the only elements that cannot be cloned. This list also includes remoteclients, and console elements.

The cloned element will be placed on the [[/element tree.md|element tree]] as a child of the same parent as the cloned element.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
element cloneElement ( element theElement, [ float xPos = 0, float yPos = 0, float zPos = 0, bool cloneChildren = false ] )  
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/element.md|element]]:clone||}}

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''theElement:''' The element that you wish to clone.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
* '''xPos''': A floating point number representing the X coordinate on the map.
* '''yPos''': A floating point number representing the Y coordinate on the map.
* '''zPos''': A floating point number representing the Z coordinate on the map.
* '''cloneChildren''': A boolean value representing whether or not the element's children will be cloned.
'''Note: if 'cloneChildren' is true, the position floats will be offsets from the cloned element's position.'''

===Returns===
Returns the handle of the new cloned element of the parent, ''false'' if invalid arguments were passed.

==Example== 
This example clones the vehicle a player is in.  This allows carrying over of the current state of the vehicle, including mods, for example.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function cloneVehicle ( thePlayer, commandName )
	local occupiedVehicle = getPedOccupiedVehicle ( thePlayer ) -- get the player's vehicle
	if occupiedVehicle then -- If the player is actually in a vehicle
		local x, y, z = getElementPosition ( occupiedVehicle )   -- get the vehicle's position
		local clone = cloneElement ( occupiedVehicle, x+5, y, z ) -- create a clone of the vehicle near it
	else
		outputChatBox ( "You can't clone a vehicle if you're not in a vehicle", thePlayer, 255, 0, 0 )
	end
end
addCommandHandler ( "clone", cloneVehicle )
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Element functions}}