
{{Server function}}
This function is for creating a new [[/team.md|team]], which can be used to group players. Players will not join the team until they are respawned.

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
team createTeam ( string teamName, [int colorR = 255, int colorG = 255, int colorB = 255] )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||Team.create||}}
===Required Arguments===
*'''teamName:''' A string representing the teams name.
===Optional Arguments=== 
*'''colorR:''' An integer representing the red color value.
*'''colorG:''' An integer representing the green color value.
*'''colorB:''' An integer representing the blue color value.

===Returns===
Returns a team element if it was successfully created, ''false'' if invalid arguments are passed or a team with that name already exists.

==Example==
'''Example 1:''' This example creates a new team for a player, then adds him to it.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function gimmeATeam ( source, commandName, teamName )
  local newTeam = createTeam ( teamName ) -- create a new team with the specified name
  if newTeam then -- if it was successfully created
    setPlayerTeam ( source, newTeam ) -- add the player to the new team
  end
end
addCommandHandler("giveteam", gimmeATeam)
</syntaxhighlight>

'''Example 2:''' This example creates two teams, one for Admin and one for Freeroamers, when the resource this script is in is started.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function createTeamsOnStart ()
	teamAdmmin = createTeam ( "Admin", 0, 255, 0 ) --change the 3 numbers(0,255,0), the first number is ColourR, the second is ColourG, and the last one is ColourB
	teamFreeroamers = createTeam ( "Freeroamer", 200, 0, 100 )
end
addEventHandler("onResourceStart", resourceRoot, createTeamsOnStart) --we attach the function to this resource's root element
</syntaxhighlight>

'''Example 3:''' This example creates a team for Admin and when an admin logs in, he will be set in the Admin team.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function createAdminTeamOnStart ()
	AdminTeam = createTeam ( "Admin", 0, 255, 0 )-- create a new team and name it 'Admin'
end
addEventHandler("onResourceStart", resourceRoot, createAdminTeamOnStart) -- add an event handler

function setAdminTeam()
if isObjectInACLGroup("user."..getAccountName(getPlayerAccount(source)), aclGetGroup("Admin")) then -- if he is admin
   setPlayerTeam(source, AdminTeam) -- set him to admin team
   end
end
addEventHandler("onPlayerLogin",getRootElement(),setAdminTeam) -- add an event handler
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Team_functions}}