 
{{Server client function}}
This function creates a [[/blip.md|blip]] [[/element.md|element]], which is displayed as an icon on the client's radar.

==Syntax==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
blip createBlip ( float x, float y, float z [, int icon = 0, int size = 2, int r = 255, int g = 0, int b = 0, int a = 255, int ordering = 0, float visibleDistance = 99999.0, visibleTo = getRootElement( ) ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
blip createBlip ( float x, float y, float z [, int icon = 0, int size = 2, int r = 255, int g = 0, int b = 0, int a = 255, int ordering = 0, float visibleDistance = 99999.0 ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 
</section>
{{OOP||[[/Blip.md|Blip]]}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''x:''' The x position of the blip, in world coordinates.
*'''y:''' The y position of the blip, in world coordinates.
*'''z:''' The z position of the blip, in world coordinates.

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''icon:''' The icon that the radar blips should be. Valid values can be seen at [[/Blip Icons.md|Blip Icons]]
*'''size:''' The size of the radar blip. Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 2.
*'''r:''' The amount of red in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 255. 
*'''g:''' The amount of green in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 0.
*'''b:''' The amount of blue in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 0.
*'''a:''' The amount of alpha in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 255.
{{New feature/item|3|1.0||
*'''ordering:''' This defines the blip's Z-level ordering (-32768 - 32767). Default is 0.
*'''visibleDistance:''' The maximum distance from the camera at which the blip is still visible
}}
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
*'''visibleTo:''' This defines which elements can see the blip. Defaults to visible to everyone. See [[/visibility.md|visibility]].
</section>

==Returns==
Returns an [[/element.md|element]] of the [[/blip.md|blip]] if it was created successfully, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
'''Example 1:''' This example creates a radar blip at a random player's position and makes it so that it is only visible to that player.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Pick a random player
local myPlayer = getRandomPlayer( )
-- Retrieve the player's position and store it in the variables x, y and z
local x, y, z = getElementPosition( myPlayer )
-- Create a radar blip at the player's position, with a 'cash' icon and only visible to the player
local myBlip = createBlip( x, y, z, 51, 0, 0, 0, 255, myPlayer )
</syntaxhighlight>

'''Example 2:''' This example attaches a blip to a player. You can attach a blip to an element by just setting the blip's parent to that element.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Pick a random player
local myPlayer = getRandomPlayer( )
-- Create a radar blip in the middle of the map
local myBlip = createBlip( 0, 0, 0 )
-- Make the player the parent of the blip, so that the blip follows the player around
setElementParent( myBlip, myPlayer )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Blip_functions}}

[[/AR:createBlip.md|AR:createBlip]]
[[/es:createBlip.md|es:createBlip]]
[[/DE:createBlip.md|DE:createBlip]]