 
{{Server client function}}
This function creates a [[/blip.md|blip]] that is attached to an [[/element.md|element]]. This blip is displayed as an icon on the client's radar and will 'follow' the element that it is attached to around.

==Syntax==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
blip createBlipAttachedTo ( element elementToAttachTo [, int icon = 0, int size = 2, int r = 255, int g = 0, int b = 0, int a = 255, int ordering = 0, float visibleDistance = 99999.0, visibleTo = getRootElement( ) ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
blip createBlipAttachedTo ( element elementToAttachTo [, int icon = 0, int size = 2, int r = 255, int g = 0, int b = 0, int a = 255, int ordering = 0, float visibleDistance = 99999.0] )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

{{OOP||[[/Blip.md|Blip]].createAttachedTo||}}

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''elementToAttachTo:''' The [[/element.md|element]] to attach the marker to.

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''icon:''' The icon that the radar blips should be. Valid values can be seen at [[/Blip Icons.md|Blip Icons]]
*'''size:''' The size of the radar blip. Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default value is 2.
*'''r:''' The amount of red in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 255. 
*'''g:''' The amount of green in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 0.
*'''b:''' The amount of blue in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 0.
*'''a:''' The amount of alpha in the blip's color (0 - 255). Only applicable to the ''Marker'' icon. Default is 255.
{{New feature/item|3|1.0||
*'''ordering:''' This defines the blip's Z-level ordering (-32768 - 32767). Default is 0.
*'''visibleDistance:''' The maximum distance from the camera at which the blip is still visible (0 - 65535)
}}
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
*'''visibleTo:''' What elements can see the blip. Defaults to visible to everyone. See [[/visibility.md|visibility]].
</section>

===Returns===
Returns a [[/blip.md|blip]] if the blip was created succesfully, or ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example creates a radar blip attached to a random player, visible to everyone. The blip will follow the player around as they move. This could be used for manhunt, to emphasise a random player.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Pick a random player
function setupRandomRobber ()
	local myPlayer = getRandomPlayer ()
	-- Create a radar blip at the player's position, with a 'cash' icon and only visible to everyone (no 'visibleTo' parameter)
	local myBlip = createBlipAttachedTo ( myPlayer, 52 )
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Blip_functions}}