
{{Server function}}
This function creates an new, empty resource. This creates a directory matching the name you specify on disk, then creates an empty meta.xml file with a <meta> element in it. 

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
resource createResource ( string resourceName [, string organizationalDir ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/Resource.md|Resource]]}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''resourceName:''' The name of the new resource. This should be a valid file name. It's recommended that you do not have spaces or non-ASCII characters in resource names.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
* '''organizationalDir''': A string containing the path where the resource should be created (e.g. "[gamemodes]/[amx]").

===Returns===
Returns the [[/resource.md|resource]] element of the new resource if successful, ''false'' otherwise. This could fail if the resource name already is in use, if a directory already exists with the name you've specified (but this isn't a valid resource) or if the name you specify isn't valid. It could also fail if the disk was full or for other similar reasons.

==Example== 
This example creates a new resource named what the player specified. The command is "/new-resource <name>".
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function createNewResource ( source, command, resourceName ) -- Define the source and add a resourceName argument.
	if ( resourceName ) then -- Check if they entered a resource name, and if they did...
		local resourceName = tostring ( resourceName ) -- Convert the name into a string.
		local newResource = createResource ( resourceName ) -- Create the new resource.
			if ( newResource ) then -- Check if the resource has been created, if so then...
				outputChatBox ( "New resource created succcessfully.", source, 255, 0, 0 ) -- Output it's done.
			else -- If the resource wasn't made successfully then...
				outputChatBox ( "An un-expected error occured.", source, 255, 0, 0 ) -- Output it failed.
			end
	else -- If they didn't enter a resource name...
		outputChatBox ( "Please specify a name for your new resource.", source, 255, 0, 0 ) -- Tell them to specify a name.
	end
end
addCommandHandler ( "new-resource", createNewResource ) -- Make it trigger when somebody types "/new-resource <name>".
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Resource_functions}}