 
{{Client function}} 
This function draws a 2D rectangle across the screen - rendered for '''one''' frame. This should be used in conjunction with [[/onClientRender.md|onClientRender]] in order to display continuously. 

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool dxDrawRectangle ( float startX, float startY, float width, float height [, int color = white, bool postGUI = false, bool subPixelPositioning = false ] )
</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments=== 
* '''startX:''' An float representing the '''absolute''' origin X position of the rectangle, represented by pixels on the screen.
* '''startY:''' An float representing the '''absolute''' origin Y position of the rectangle, represented by pixels on the screen.
* '''width:''' An float representing the width of the rectangle, drawn in a ''right'' direction from the origin.
* '''height:''' An float representing the height of the rectangle, drawn in a ''downwards'' direction from the origin.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''color:''' the hex color of the rectangle, produced using [[/tocolor.md|tocolor]] or 0xAARRGGBB (AA = alpha, RR = red, GG = green, BB = blue).
* '''postGUI:''' A bool representing whether the line should be drawn on top of or behind any ingame GUI.
{{New feature/item|9.06931|1.4.0|6931|
*'''subPixelPositioning:''' A bool representing whether the rectangle can be positioned sub-pixel-ly.
}}

===Returns===
Returns a true if the operation was successful, false otherwise.

==Example== 
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
Example of MOTD (message of the day), made using DxDrawText, -Line and -Rectangle.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local x,y = guiGetScreenSize()  -- Get players resolution.
local playerName = getPlayerName ( localPlayer )  -- Get players name.
local MOTDText = "Welcome to our server, this is a test MOTD script for MTA's Wiki."  -- Example of MOTD message.

function drawStuff()
	dxDrawRectangle ( x/3.8, y/3.8, x/2.02, y/2, tocolor ( 0, 0, 0, 150 ) ) -- Create our black transparent MOTD background Rectangle.
	dxDrawText ( "Welcome " .. playerName, x/3.5, y/3.6, x, y, tocolor ( 255, 255, 255, 255 ), 1, "bankgothic" ) -- Create Welcome title.
        dxDrawText ( "Welcome " .. playerName, x/3.48, y/3.58, x, y, tocolor ( 0, 0, 0, 255 ), 1, "bankgothic" ) -- Create Welcome title shadow.
	dxDrawLine ( x/3.6, y/3.3, x/1.35, y/3.3, tocolor ( 255, 255, 255, 255 ), 2 ) -- Create underline for title.
	dxDrawLine ( x/3.59, y/3.275, x/1.348, y/3.275, tocolor ( 0, 0, 0, 255 ), 2 ) -- Create underline shadow.
	dxDrawText ( MOTDText, x/3.6, y/3, x, y, tocolor ( 255, 255, 255, 255 ), 1, "clear" ) -- Create MOTD text.
end

addEventHandler("onClientRender", root, drawStuff)  -- Keep everything visible with onClientRender.
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.4.0-9.06931|Added subPixelPositioning argument}}

==See Also==
{{Drawing_functions}}