 
{{Client function}} 

Draws an image on the screen for a single frame. In order for the image to stay visible continuously, you need to call this function with the same parameters on each frame update (see [[/onClientRender.md|onClientRender]]).<br/>
Image files should ideally have dimensions that are a power of two, to prevent possible blurring.<br/>
<b>Power of two: 2px, 4px, 8px, 16px, 32px, 64px, 128px, 256px, 512px, 1024px...</b>
{{Note|To help prevent edge artifacts when drawing textures, set '''textureEdge''' to '''"clamp"''' when calling [[/dxCreateTexture.md|dxCreateTexture]]}}
==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool dxDrawImage ( float posX, float posY, float width, float height, mixed image,
                 [ float rotation = 0, float rotationCenterOffsetX = 0, float rotationCenterOffsetY = 0,
                   int color = tocolor(255,255,255,255), bool postGUI = false ] )
</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''posX:''' the absolute X coordinate of the top left corner of the image
*'''posY:''' the absolute Y coordinate of the top left corner of the image
*'''width:''' the absolute width of the image
*'''height:''' the absolute height of the image
*'''image:''' Either a [[/material.md|material]] element or a [[/filepath.md|filepath]] of the image which is going to be drawn. (.dds images are also supported). Image files should ideally have dimensions that are a power of two, to prevent possible blurring.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''rotation:''' the rotation, in degrees for the image.
*'''rotationCenterOffsetX:''' the absolute X offset from the image center for which to rotate the image from.
*'''rotationCenterOffsetY:''' the absolute Y offset from the image center for which to rotate the image from.
*'''color:''' Tints the image with a value produced by [[/tocolor.md|tocolor]] or hexadecimal number in format: 0xAARRGGBB (RR = red, GG = green, BB = blue, AA = alpha).
*'''postGUI:''' A bool representing whether the image should be drawn on top of or behind any ingame GUI (rendered by CEGUI).

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if successful, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
Example of a pendulum swinging from the top of the screen, made using dxDrawImage.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local screenWidth,screenHeight = guiGetScreenSize()  -- Get screen resolution.


function renderDisplay ( )
	local seconds = getTickCount() / 1000
	local angle = math.sin(seconds) * 80
	-- This will draw the graphic file 'arrow.png' at the top middle of the screen
	-- using the size of 100 pixels wide, and 240 pixels high.
	-- The center of rotation is at the top of the image.
	dxDrawImage ( screenWidth/2 - 50, 0, 100, 240, 'arrow.png', angle, 0, -120 )
end


function HandleTheRendering ( )
	addEventHandler("onClientRender", root, renderDisplay)  -- Keep everything visible with onClientRender.
end
addEventHandler("onClientResourceStart",resourceRoot, HandleTheRendering)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Drawing_functions}}