 
{{Client function}} 
Differing from [[/dxDrawImage.md|dxDrawImage]], this function only draws a part of an image on the screen for a single frame. In order for the image to stay visible continuously, you need to call this function with the same parameters on each frame update (see [[/onClientRender.md|onClientRender]]).

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool dxDrawImageSection ( float posX, float posY, float width, float height,
                          float u, float v, float usize, float vsize, mixed image,
                        [ float rotation = 0, float rotationCenterOffsetX = 0, float rotationCenterOffsetY = 0,
                          int color = white, bool postGUI = false ] )
</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
*'''posX:''' the absolute X coordinate of the top left corner of the image
*'''posY:''' the absolute Y coordinate of the top left corner of the image
*'''width:''' the absolute width of the image
*'''height:''' the absolute height of the image
*'''u:''' the absolute X coordinate of the top left corner of the section which should be drawn from image
*'''v:''' the absolute Y coordinate of the top left corner of the section which should be drawn from image
*'''usize:''' the absolute width of the image section
*'''vsize:''' the absolute height of the image section
*'''image:''' Either a [[/material.md|material]] element or a [[/filepath.md|filepath]] of the image which is going to be drawn. (.dds images are also supported). Image files should ideally have dimensions that are a power of two, to prevent possible blurring.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''rotation:''' the rotation, in degrees for the image.
*'''rotationCenterOffsetX:''' the absolute X offset from the image center for which to rotate the image from.
*'''rotationCenterOffsetY:''' the absolute Y offset from the image center for which to rotate the image from.
*'''color:''' the color of the image, a value produced by [[/tocolor.md|tocolor]] or hexadecimal number in format: 0xAARRGGBB (AA = alpha, RR = red, GG = green, BB = blue).
*'''postgui :''' A bool representing whether the image should be drawn on top of or behind any ingame GUI (rendered by CEGUI).

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if successful, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
The example draws a section of an image. (You can use [http://i1325.photobucket.com/albums/u630/Tourmalinelisa2/128x128.jpg this] image to test.)
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEventHandler('onClientRender', root, function()
  dxDrawImageSection(400, 200, 64, 64, 0, 0, 64, 64, 'img.jpg') -- Draw a certain section
  dxDrawImage(400, 300, 128, 128, 'img.jpg') -- Draw the whole image to be able to identify the difference
end)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Drawing_functions}}