{{Client function}}

This function gets information about various internal datum

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
table dxGetStatus ( )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Returns===
Returns a table with the following entries:
* '''TestMode :''' The current dx test mode. See [[/dxSetTestMode.md|dxSetTestMode]].
*'''VideoCardName :''' The name of the graphics card.
*'''VideoCardRAM :''' The installed memory in MB of the graphics card.
*'''VideoCardPSVersion :''' The maximum pixel shader version of the graphics card.
*'''VideoCardNumRenderTargets:''' The maximum number of simultaneous render targets a shader can use.
*'''VideoCardMaxAnisotropy:''' The maximum anisotropic filtering available. (0-4 which respectively mean: off,2x,4x,8x,16x)
*'''VideoMemoryFreeForMTA :''' The amount of memory in MB available for MTA to use. '''When this gets to zero, [[/guiCreateFont.md|guiCreateFont]], [[/dxCreateFont.md|dxCreateFont]] and [[/dxCreateRenderTarget.md|dxCreateRenderTarget]] will fail.'''
*'''VideoMemoryUsedByFonts :''' The amount of graphic memory in MB used by custom fonts.
*'''VideoMemoryUsedByTextures :''' The amount of graphic memory in MB used by textures.
*'''VideoMemoryUsedByRenderTargets :''' The amount of graphic memory in MB used by render targets.
*'''SettingWindowed :''' The windowed setting. (true/false)
*'''SettingFXQuality :''' The FX Quality. (0-3)
*'''SettingDrawDistance :''' The draw distance setting. (0-100)
*'''SettingVolumetricShadows :''' The volumetric shadows setting. (true/false)
*'''SettingStreamingVideoMemoryForGTA :''' The usable graphics memory setting. (64-256)
*'''SettingAnisotropicFiltering:''' The anisotropic filtering setting. (0-4 which respectively mean: off,2x,4x,8x,16x)
*'''SettingAntiAliasing:''' The anti-aliasing setting. (0-3 which respectively mean: off,1x,2x,3x)
*'''SettingHeatHaze:''' The heat haze setting. (true/false)
*'''SettingGrassEffect:''' The grass effect setting. (true/false)
*'''Setting32BitColor:''' The color depth of the screen. (false is 16bit, true is 32bit)
*'''SettingHUDMatchAspectRatio:''' The hud match aspect ratio setting (true/false)
*'''SettingAspectRatio:''' The aspect ratio setting ("auto", "4:3", "16:10", "16:9")
*'''SettingFOV:''' The FOV setting
*'''AllowScreenUpload :''' The allows screen uploads setting. (true/false)
*'''DepthBufferFormat:''' The format of the shader readable depth buffer, or 'unknown' if not available
*'''UsingDepthBuffer:''' ''true'' if the depth buffer is used, ''false'' otherwise
==Example==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addCommandHandler( "getinfo",
	function( )
		local info = dxGetStatus( )
		for k, v in pairs( info ) do
			outputChatBox( k .. " : " .. tostring( v ) )
		end
	end
)
</syntaxhighlight>

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.3.0-9.04715|Added DepthBufferFormat argument}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.3.0-9.04811|Added VideoCardMaxAnisotropy, SettingAnisotropicFiltering, SettingAntiAliasing,<br/> SettingHeatHaze, SettingGrassEffect and Setting32BitColor arguments}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.3.4-9.05731|Added SettingHUDMatchAspectRatio and SettingAspectRatio}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.4.1-9.07181|Added SettingFOV}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.4.1-9.07310|Added VideoCardNumRenderTargets}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.5.2-9.07816|Added UsingDepthBuffer}}

==See Also==
{{Drawing_functions}}