{{Client function}}

This function sets the current blend mode for the dxDraw functions. Changing the blend mode can increase the quality when drawing text or certain other images to a render target. As a general guide use '''modulate_add''' when drawing text to a render target, and '''add''' when drawing the render target to the screen. Don't forget to restore the default '''blend''' at the end - See the example below.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool dxSetBlendMode ( string blendMode )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments===
*'''blendMode :''' The blend mode to use which can be one of:
**'''blend:''' The source textures are alpha blended to the screen/render target. This is the default mode for drawing and gives the results we all know and love.
**'''add:''' The source textures are added to the screen/render target.
**'''modulate_add:''' The source textures are multiplied by the alpha and then added to the screen/render target.
**'''overwrite :''' The source textures are overwritten. This can be useful for clearing render targets.

==Returns==
Returns true if successful, or ''false'' if invalid arguments were passed to the function.

==Example==
This example shows how to use '''modulate_add''' and '''add''' to avoid quality problems when using a render target:
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local myRenderTarget = dxCreateRenderTarget(500, 500, true)

--
-- Function to draw text to our render target texture when the 'r' key is pressed
--
function updateRenderTarget()
    dxSetRenderTarget(myRenderTarget, true)
    dxSetBlendMode("modulate_add")  -- Set 'modulate_add' when drawing stuff on the render target

    dxDrawText("Testing "..getTickCount(), 0, 0, 0, 0, tocolor(255, 255, 255, 255), 2, "clear")

    dxSetBlendMode("blend")         -- Restore default blending
    dxSetRenderTarget()             -- Restore default render target
end
bindKey("r", "down", updateRenderTarget )

--
-- Display render target contents
--
addEventHandler("onClientRender", root,
    function()
        dxSetBlendMode("add")       -- Set 'add' when drawing the render target on the screen
        dxDrawImage(100, 200, 500, 500, myRenderTarget, -10)
        dxSetBlendMode("blend")     -- Restore default blending
    end
)
</syntaxhighlight>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.3.0-9.03782|}}

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.3.0-9.04425|Added overwrite }}

==See Also==
{{Drawing_functions}}