{{Client function}}
{{Needs_Example}}

This function applies a 3D transformation to a [[/shader.md|shader]] element when it is drawn with [[/dxDrawImage.md|dxDrawImage]].

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool dxSetShaderTransform ( element theShader,
                            float rotationX, float rotationY, float rotationZ,
                          [ float rotationCenterOffsetX = 0, float rotationCenterOffsetY = 0, float rotationCenterOffsetZ = 0,
                            bool bRotationCenterOffsetOriginIsScreen = false,
                            float perspectiveCenterOffsetX = 0, float perspectiveCenterOffsetY = 0,
                            bool bPerspectiveCenterOffsetOriginIsScreen = false ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/shader.md|shader]]:setTransform}}

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''theShader:''' The shader element whose transformation is to be changed
*'''rotationX:''' Rotation angle in degrees around the X axis (Left,right). This will make the shader rotate along its width.
*'''rotationY:''' Rotation angle in degrees around the Y axis (Up,down). This will make the shader rotate along its height.
*'''rotationZ:''' Rotation angle in degrees around the Z axis (In,out). This will make the shader rotate in a similar way to the rotation argument in [[/dxDrawImage.md|dxDrawImage]].

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}}
*'''rotationCenterOffsetX :''' The center of rotation offset X position in screen relative units.
*'''rotationCenterOffsetY :''' The center of rotation offset Y position in screen relative units.
*'''rotationCenterOffsetZ :''' The center of rotation offset Z position in screen relative units.
*'''bRotationCenterOffsetOriginIsScreen :''' Set to [[/boolean.md|true]] if the center of rotation origin should be the center of the screen rather than the center of the image.
*'''perspectiveCenterOffsetX :''' The center of perspective offset X position in screen relative units.
*'''perspectiveCenterOffsetY :''' The center of perspective offset Y position in screen relative units.
*'''bPerspectiveCenterOffsetOriginIsScreen :''' Set to [[/boolean.md|true]] if the center of perspective origin should be the center of the screen rather than the center of the image.

To convert screen relative units into screen pixel coordinates, ''multiply'' by the screen size. Conversely, to convert screen pixel coordinates to screen relative units, '''''divide''''' by the screen size.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the shader element's transform was successfully changed, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
</syntaxhighlight>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.2.0-9.03618|}}

==See Also==
{{Drawing_functions}}