{{Client function}}

{{Note box|Please note the loading order that is used in the examples as other orders can cause collisions, textures or the DFF not to load due to technical limitations.}}

This function loads a RenderWare Model (DFF) file into GTA.

To successfully load your model with textures, be sure to use [[/engineLoadTXD.md|engineLoadTXD]] and [[/engineImportTXD.md|engineImportTXD]] before calling this function. If some error occurs while loading the DFF, MTA will output a message - check out [[/DFF error messages.md|DFF error messages]] to know what they mean.

This is a client side function. Be sure to transfer your DFF file by including it in the meta file.

The returned [[/DFF.md|DFF]] element is an element in the element tree, just like vehicles and objects. When the dff is destroyed, ie on resource unload or using [[/destroyElement.md|destroyElement]], any elements that use the DFF, such as vehicles or objects will be reset.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
dff engineLoadDFF ( string dff_file / string raw_data ) 
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/DFF.md|EngineDFF]]}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''dff_file / raw_data:''' The [[/filepath.md|filepath]] to the DFF file you want to load or whole data buffer of the DFF file.

===Returns===
Returns a [[/DFF.md|DFF]] element if the dff file loaded, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
'''Example 1:''' This example loads a combination of a custom DFF and TXD file to replace the Euros vehicle in-game. The collisions are embedded inside the DFF file.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
outputChatBox ( "> replacing the euros vehicle" )

txd = engineLoadTXD ( "data/euros.txd" )
engineImportTXD ( txd, 587 )
dff = engineLoadDFF ( "data/euros.dff" )
engineReplaceModel ( dff, 587 )
</syntaxhighlight>

'''Example 2:''' This example loads a combination of custom TXD, COL and DFF files to replace an in-game model of a set of floors.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
outputChatBox ( "> loading floor objects" )
col_floors = engineLoadCOL ( "models/office_floors.col" )
engineReplaceCOL ( col_floors, 3781 )
txd_floors = engineLoadTXD ( "models/office_floors.txd" )
engineImportTXD ( txd_floors, 3781 )
dff_floors = engineLoadDFF ( "models/office_floors.dff" )
engineReplaceModel ( dff_floors, 3781 )
</syntaxhighlight>

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.4.1-9.07088|Added option to use raw data instead of a file name}}

==See Also==
{{Engine_functions}}