{{Client function}}

{{Note box|Please note the loading order that is used in the examples as other orders can cause collisions, textures or the DFF not to load due to technical limitations}}

This function loads a RenderWare Collision (COL 1/2/3) file into GTA. The collisions can then be used to provide collisions for in-game objects.

For vehicles, please omit this function by embedding your [[/COL.md|COL]] file into your [[/DFF.md|DFF]] file. This way, you can be sure that the COL file is correctly (and automatically) loaded when calling [[/engineLoadDFF.md|engineLoadDFF]].

This is a client side function. Be sure to transfer your COL file by including it in the meta file.

'''Note:''' collision libraries (.col files containing multiple collision models) are not supported. See [[/COL.md|COL]] for details.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
col engineLoadCOL ( string col_file / string raw_data ) 
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/COL.md|EngineCOL]]}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''col_file / raw_data:''' The [[/filepath.md|filepath]] to the [[/COL.md|COL]] file you want to load or whole data buffer of the COL file.

===Returns===
Returns a [[/COL.md|COL]] if the file was loaded, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
'''Example 1:''' This example loads a combination of a custom DFF and TXD file to replace the Euros vehicle in-game. The collisions are embedded inside the DFF file.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
outputChatBox ( "> replacing the euros vehicle" )

txd = engineLoadTXD ( "data/euros.txd" )
engineImportTXD ( txd, 587 )
dff = engineLoadDFF ( "data/euros.dff" )
engineReplaceModel ( dff, 587 )
</syntaxhighlight>

'''Example 2:''' This example loads a combination of custom COL, TXD and DFFfiles to replace an in-game model of a set of floors.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
outputChatBox ( "> loading floor objects" )
col_floors = engineLoadCOL ( "models/office_floors.col" )
engineReplaceCOL ( col_floors, 3781 )
txd_floors = engineLoadTXD ( "models/office_floors.txd" )
engineImportTXD ( txd_floors, 3781 )
dff_floors = engineLoadDFF ( "models/office_floors.dff" )
engineReplaceModel ( dff_floors, 3781 )
</syntaxhighlight>

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.4.1-9.07088|Added option to use raw data instead of a file name}}

==See Also==
{{Engine_functions}}