 
{{Client function}}
{{Note box|Please note the loading order that is used in the examples as other orders can cause collisions, textures or the DFF not to load due to technical limitations}}

This function replaces the collision file of the given model id to the collision file passed. Use [[/engineLoadCOL.md|engineLoadCOL]] to load the collision file first.

'''Note:''' Collision libraries (.col files containing multiple collision models) are not supported. See [[/COL.md|COL]] for details. Object models are supported only (no vehicles or players).

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool engineReplaceCOL ( col theCol, int modelID )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/COL.md|col]]:replace}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''theCol:''' The collision file to replace with
*'''modelID:''' The model ID whose collision file you want to replace

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the collision was successfully replaced, ''false'' or ''nil'' if the collision could not be replaced for a reason.

==Example== 
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
Client-Side example for replacing object collision with custom one.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function ReplaceCollision ( )
outputChatBox ( "> Replacing Collision Data." )
col = engineLoadCOL( "myColFile.col" )
engineReplaceCOL( col, 3356 )
end

addEvent ( "collisionReplace", true )
addEventHandler ( "collisionReplace", root, ReplaceCollision )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>


<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
Server-side example function for triggering the replace.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function ReplaceCols ( )
triggerClientEvent ( "collisionReplace", root, collisionReplace )
end
addCommandHandler("replacecol", ReplaceCols)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
<!-- Change FunctionArea to the area that this function is in on the main function list page, e.g. Server, Player, Vehicle etc -->
{{Engine_functions}}