{{Client function}}

This function sets a custom LOD distance for any object / model ID. This is the distance at which objects of that model ID are switched to their LOD model, or (if there is no LOD model) become invisible.

'''Notes:'''
The actual draw distance used is modified by the draw distance slider in the settings 'Video' tab of the MTA client.

*When the 'Video' tab draw distance slider is 0%, the engineSetModelLODDistance setting approximately matches the draw distance used.
:''e.g. engineSetModelLODDistance(1337,100) will mean model 1337 will be visible up to a distance of '''100''' units.''

*When the 'Video' tab draw distance slider is 100%, the engineSetModelLODDistance setting is approximately doubled before use.
:''e.g. engineSetModelLODDistance(1337,100) will mean model 1337 will be visible up to a distance of '''200''' units.''

However, there is a general draw distance limit of 300 units. So engineSetModelLODDistance(1337,400) will mean model 1337 will be visible up to a distance of 300 units no matter what the 'Video' tab says.

Therefore, unless it's really important, engineSetModelLODDistance should not be set to anything greater than 170.<br>
170 will still give the maximum draw distance (of 300 units) on clients that have a 'Video' tab draw distance setting of 100%, and it will help reduce lag for players who chose a lower draw distance in their settings.

{{New feature/item|3.0120|1.2||
For low LOD elements, engineSetModelLODDistance still has a limit of 300 units, but the actual draw distance used is 5 times the setting value. Also, low LOD elements ignore the 'Video' tab draw distance slider. So a setting of 200 will mean a low LOD element will always have a draw distance of '''1000''' units.
}}

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool engineSetModelLODDistance ( int model, float distance ) 
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||Engine.setModelLODDistance}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''model:''' The model / object ID number you want to change the LOD distance of.
*'''distance:''' New LOD distance value in San Andreas units.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the function executed succesfully, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Cause massive lag by maxing out draw distance of all objects
for i, v in ipairs(getElementsByType("object")) do
    local model = getElementModel(v)
    engineSetModelLODDistance(model, 300)   -- Set maximum draw distance
end
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Engine_functions}}