{{Server client function}}

This function will fade a player's camera to a color or back to normal over a specified time period. This will also affect the sound volume for the player (50% faded = 50% volume, full fade = no sound). For clientside scripts you can perform 2 fade ins or fade outs in a row, but for serverside scripts you must use one then the other.

{{Note|The speed of the effect depends directly on the current gamespeed.}}

==Syntax==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool fadeCamera ( player thePlayer, bool fadeIn, [ float timeToFade = 1.0, int red = 0, int green = 0, int blue = 0 ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/player.md|player]]:fadeCamera}}
===Required Arguments===
* '''thePlayer:''' The player whose camera you wish to fade.
* '''fadeIn:''' Should the camera be faded in or out? Pass ''true'' to fade the camera in, ''false'' to fade it out to a color.

===Optional Arguments===
* '''timeToFade:''' The number of seconds it should take to fade. Any number less than 1 makes the fade instant.
* '''red:''' The amount of red in the color that the camera fades out to (0 - 255). Not required for fading in.
* '''green:''' The amount of green in the color that the camera fades out to (0 - 255). Not required for fading in.
* '''blue:''' The amount of blue in the color that the camera fades out to (0 - 255). Not required for fading in.
</section>

<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool fadeCamera ( bool fadeIn, [ float timeToFade = 1.0, int red = 0, int green = 0, int blue = 0 ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||Camera.fade}}
===Required Arguments===
* '''fadeIn:''' Should the camera be faded in our out? Pass ''true'' to fade the camera in, ''false'' to fade it out to a color.

===Optional Arguments===
* '''timeToFade:''' The number of seconds it should take to fade. Any number less than 1 makes the fade instant.
* '''red:''' The amount of red in the color that the camera fades out to (0 - 255). Not required for fading in.
* '''green:''' The amount of green in the color that the camera fades out to (0 - 255). Not required for fading in.
* '''blue:''' The amount of blue in the color that the camera fades out to (0 - 255). Not required for fading in.
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the camera was faded successfully, ''false'' if invalid arguments were passed to the function.

==Example==
<section name="Server example" class="server" show="true">
When a player gets damaged, place a quick fade-to-red effect on his screen.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function addRednessOnDamage ( )
      fadeCamera ( source, false, 1.0, 255, 0, 0 )         -- fade the player's camera to red over a period of 1 second
      setTimer ( fadeCameraDelayed, 500, 1, source )   -- don't let it go to opaque red, interrupt it after half a second and fade back to normal
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerDamage", root, addRednessOnDamage )

function fadeCameraDelayed(player) -- This function prevents debug warnings when the player disconnects while the timer is running.
      if (isElement(player)) then
            fadeCamera(player, true, 0.5)
      end
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Camera_functions}}