
{{Server client function}}
This function tells you which weapon type is in a certain weapon slot of a ped. See [[/weapon.md|Weapon Info]]

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
int getPedWeapon ( ped thePed, [ int weaponSlot = current ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/ped.md|ped]]:getWeapon}}

===Required Arguments===
*'''thePed''': the [[/ped.md|ped]] you want to get the weapon type from.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''weaponSlot''': an integer representing the weapon slot (set to the ped's current slot if not given).

===Returns===
Returns an [[/int.md|int]] indicating the type of the weapon the ped has in the specified slot. If the slot is empty, it returns 0.

It should be noted that if a ped runs out of ammo for a weapon, it will still return the ID of that weapon in the slot (even if it appears as if the ped does not have a weapon at all), though [[/getPedTotalAmmo.md|getPedTotalAmmo]] will return '''0'''.  Therefore, [[/getPedTotalAmmo.md|getPedTotalAmmo]] should be used in conjunction with [[/getPedWeapon.md|getPedWeapon]] in order to check if a ped has a weapon.

==Example==
This example will display a player's current weapon type. In this case,a random player.
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Find a player called someguy and find his current weapon id.
local weaponType = getPedWeapon ( getRandomPlayer() )
-- If a weapon type was returned then
if ( weaponType ) then
    outputChatBox ( "someguy's current Weapon-type: " .. weaponType .. "." ) -- Display the weapon type in the chat box
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Client_ped_functions}}