
{{Useful Function}}
This function lets you get an RG Color depending on the percentage.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
int, int getRGColorFromPercentage ( int percentage )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''percentage:''' The value which you want to get the RG from. It must be between 0 and 100.

===Returns===
Returns two integers, with red, and green values if percentage goes between 0 and 100. Returns false otherwise.

==Code==
<section name="Server/Client-Side Script" class="both" show="true">
<code>
function getRGColorFromPercentage(percentage)
	if not percentage or
		percentage and type(percentage) ~= "number" or
		percentage > 100 or percentage < 0 then
		outputDebugString( "Invalid argument @ 'getRGColorFromPercentage'", 2 )
		return false
	end

	if percentage > 50 then
		local temp = 100 - percentage
		return temp*5.1, 255
	elseif percentage == 50 then
		return 255, 255
	end
	
	return 255, percentage*5.1
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Example==
<section name="Client-Side Example" class="client" show="true">
This example shows the vehicle health with a different color depending on its health in the bottom part of the screen.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local sW, sH = guiGetScreenSize()

function showHealth()
	local veh = getPedOccupiedVehicle(localPlayer)
	if not veh then return end

	local health = getElementHealth(veh) - 250
	-- When the car has got a health of 250, it turns into fire, so we remove 250 of the original health in order not to take it into account.
	if health < 0 then health = 0 end -- In case it goes negative, we set it as if it were 0.
	-- Now we need to make the conversion to a number between 0 to 100 knowing that health goes from 0 to 750.
	local percentage = math.floor((health*0.133333333333)+0.5) -- Transformation into percentage.
	-- We now use the function
	local r, g = getRGColorFromPercentage(percentage)
	-- We show it
	dxDrawText("Health: "..percentage.."%", sW/2-100, sH-45, sW/2+100, sH-15, tocolor(r, g, 0, 255), 1, "default", "center", "center")
end
 
-- We add the handler of the function when player enters a car.
addEventHandler("onClientPlayerVehicleEnter", localPlayer, 
	function()
		addEventHandler("onClientPreRender", root, showHealth)
	end
)

-- We remove it when the player leaves a car.
addEventHandler("onClientPlayerVehicleExit", localPlayer, 
	function()
		removeEventHandler("onClientPreRender", root, showHealth)
	end
)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

'''Author: Renkon'''

==See Also==
{{Useful_Functions}}
[[/:Category:Useful_Functions.md|:Category:Useful_Functions]]