
{{Server client function}}
Gets the direction in which a train is driving (clockwise or counterclockwise).

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool getTrainDirection ( vehicle train )</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/vehicle.md|vehicle]]:getDirection|direction|setTrainDirection}}
===Required Arguments===
*'''train:''' the train of which to get the driving direction.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the train is driving clockwise on the train track, ''false'' if it is going counterclockwise or a failure occured.

==Example==
This example outputs to the player the direction the train they're driving is travelling.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function trainDir(thePlayer,command)
	if (isPedInVehicle(thePlayer)) then -- Check if they're even in a vehicle.
		if (getVehicleType(getPedOccupiedVehicle(thePlayer)) == "Train") then -- Check if they're in a train.
			local direction = getTrainDirection(getPedOccupiedVehicle(thePlayer)) -- Get the train's direction.
				if (direction) then
					outputChatBox("You're driving clockwise.",thePlayer,255,255,0) -- Output that they're driving clockwise.
				else
					outputChatBox("You're driving anti-clockwise.",thePlayer,255,255,0) -- Output that they're driving anti-clockwise.
				end
		else
			outputChatBox("You must be in a train to use this command.",thePlayer,255,0,0) -- Output that they're not in a train.
		end
	else
		outputChatBox("You must be in a train to use this command.",thePlayer,255,0,0) -- Output that they're not in a vehicle.
	end
end
addCommandHandler("direction",trainDir)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Vehicle functions}}