{{Server client function}}

{{Deprecated|getVehicleNameFromModel}}

Gets the name of a vehicle by its model id.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
string getVehicleNameFromID ( int id )            
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''id:''' This is a vehicle id. See [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] to see what values will return names (true).

===Returns===
Returns the name of the vehicle if the id was valid, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
This will retrieve the name of a car so its name can be displayed when the player chooses to spawn a car by ID.

<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function createvehiclecommand ( sourcePlayer, commandName, carid )
	-- This function is triggered by the text "spawnvehicle" in the console.
	-- The player must specify the parameter 'carid' to specify
	-- what car they wish to spawn.
	local x, y, z = getElementPosition ( sourcePlayer )
	-- Get the position of the player to spawn the car near this location
	local carname = getVehicleNameFromID ( tonumber(carid) )
	-- Get the name of the car the player asked for and store it in the
	-- variable 'carname'
	if carname == false then
		outputChatBox ( "That is not a valid car ID", sourcePlayer )
	else
		createVehicle ( carid, x + 5, y, z )
		-- Spawn the car at x + 5 from the player so it doesn't crush him
		outputChatBox ( "A " .. carname .. " was created!" )
	end
	-- If the entered car ID is invalid, false will be returned.
	-- Otherwise a string is returned, we create the car and announce the car name in the chatbox.
end
addCommandHandler ( "spawnvehicle", createvehiclecommand )
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Vehicle functions}}