
{{Server client function}}
This function will get the headlight color of a vehicle.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
int, int, int getVehicleHeadLightColor ( vehicle theVehicle )            
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/vehicle.md|vehicle]]:getHeadLightColor||setVehicleHeadLightColor}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''theVehicle:''' The [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] that you wish to set the headlight color of.

===Returns===
Returns three ''integers'' for the red, green and blue of the headlight color for the specified vehicle, ''false'' if an invalid vehicle was specified.

==Example== 
This example outputs the player vehicle head lights color.
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function getHeadLightsColor()
	local vehicle = getPedOccupiedVehicle(localPlayer) -- We get the player vehicle..
	if (vehicle) then -- We check if he's on a vehicle...
		local r, g, b = getVehicleHeadLightColor(vehicle) -- We get the vehicle head lights color..
		outputChatBox("Your vehicle lights color are: ".. r ..", ".. g ..", ".. b) -- We output them to the chatbox.
	end
end
addCommandHandler("lightscolor",getHeadLightsColor) -- Add the command handler attached to the function "getHeadLightsColor".
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function getHeadLightsColor(thePlayer)
	local vehicle = getPedOccupiedVehicle(thePlayer) -- We get the player vehicle..
	if (vehicle) then -- We check if he's on a vehicle...
		local r, g, b = getVehicleHeadLightColor(vehicle) -- We get the vehicle head lights color..
		outputChatBox("Your vehicle lights color are: ".. r ..", ".. g ..", ".. b, thePlayer) -- We output them to the chatbox.
	end
end
addCommandHandler("lightscolor",getHeadLightsColor) -- Add the command handler attached to the function "getHeadLightsColor".
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Vehicle_functions}}