
{{Client function}}
This function gets the flags of a [[/Element/Weapon.md|custom weapon]].

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool getWeaponFlags ( weapon theWeapon, string theFlag )</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/Element/Weapon.md|weapon]]:getFlags||setWeaponFlags}}

===Required Arguments===
* '''theWeapon:''' the weapon to get the flag of.
* '''theFlag:''' the weapon flag to get:
** '''disable_model''': makes the weapon and muzzle effect invisible or not.
** '''flags''': returns the flags used to get where the gun shoots at. These flags are (by order):
*** '''checkBuildings''': allows the shoot to be blocked by GTA's internally placed buildings, i.e. the world map.
*** '''checkCarTires''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] tires.
*** '''checkDummies''': allows the shoot to be blocked by GTA's internal dummies. These are not used in the current MTA version so this argument can be set to ''false''.
*** '''checkObjects''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/object.md|objects]]. 
*** '''checkPeds''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/ped.md|peds]] and [[/player.md|players]]. 
*** '''checkVehicles''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/vehicle.md|vehicles]]. 
*** '''checkSeeThroughStuff''': allows the shoot to be blocked by translucent game objects, e.g. glass. 
*** '''checkShootThroughStuff''': allows the shoot to be blocked by things that can be shot through.
** '''instant_reload''': if enabled, the weapon reloads instantly rather than waiting the reload time until shooting again.
** '''shoot_if_out_of_range''': if enabled, the weapon still fires its target beyond the weapon range distance.
** '''shoot_if_blocked''': if enabled, the weapon still fires its target even if it's blocked by something.

===Returns===
Returns the ''true'' or ''false'' on success (''flags'' flag returns 8 values) if the flag is enabled or not. Returns ''false'' if the weapon element isn't valid or an error occured.

==Example==
This example checks whether the instant_reload flag is enabled or disabled.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local weapon = createWeapon("silenced", 0, 0, 10) -- Create the weapon
if weapon then -- if the weapon exist then
   setWeaponFlags(weapon, "instant_reload", true) -- enable instant_reload
   local flag = (getWeaponFlags (weapon,"instant_reload") and "instant_reload enabled") or "instant_reload disabled"
   outputChatBox (flag)
end
</syntaxhighlight>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.3.0-9.04555|}}

==See also==
{{Client weapon creation functions}}