 
{{Server function}}
giveWeapon gives a specified weapon to a certain player or ped. There is an optional argument to specify ammunition. For example, a melee weapon doesn't need an ammo argument.
{{Note|
*When setting ammo for [[/Weapon.md|weapons in slot]] 0,1,10,11 or 12, the ammo max is 1
*When setting ammo for [[/Weapon.md|weapons in slot]] 3,4,5, the ammo is added
*When setting ammo for [[/Weapon.md|weapons in slot]] 2,6,7,8,9 and the slot weapon is changing, the ammo is replaced
}}

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' A [[/player.md|player]] or [[/ped.md|ped]] object referencing the specified player (or [[/ped.md|ped]])
*'''weapon:''' A whole number integer that refers to a [[/Weapon.md|Weapon]] ID. Click [[/Weapon.md|here]] for a list of possible weapon IDs.

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''ammo:''' A whole number integer serving as the ammo amount for the given weapon.  For weapons that do not require ammo, such as melee, this should be at least 1.
*'''setAsCurrent:''' A boolean value determining whether or not the weapon will be set as the players current.

===Returns=== 
Returns ''true'' if weapon was successfully acquired, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
'''Example 1:''' This example gives a player an M4 with 200 ammo whenever they spawn.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function giveWeaponsOnSpawn ( theSpawnpont, theTeam )
    giveWeapon ( source, 31, 200 ) -- Gives the M4 weapon with 200 ammo
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerSpawn", getRootElement(), giveWeaponsOnSpawn ) -- attach the event handler
</syntaxhighlight>


'''Example 2:''' This example adds a "give" command in console which allows giving of any weapon by entering "give <id> <amount>".
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function consoleGive ( thePlayer, commandName, weaponID, ammo )
	local status = giveWeapon ( thePlayer, weaponID, ammo, true )   -- attempt to give the weapon, forcing it as selected weapon
	if ( not status ) then                                          -- if it was unsuccessful
		outputConsole ( "Failed to give weapon.", thePlayer )   -- tell the player
	end
end
addCommandHandler ( "give", consoleGive )
</syntaxhighlight>


'''Example 3:''' This example creates a ped in certain coordinates. You can give him a weapon with "give <weaponID> <amount>" command in console.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
ped = createPed( 19, -1634.5775, 1203.85, 7.1796 )

addCommandHandler( "give",
  function ( player, command, id, amount )
    if not tonumber ( id ) then return end

    if not tonumber ( amount ) then
        amount = 9001
    end

    giveWeapon( ped, id, amount, true )
  end
)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Weapon functions}}
[[/ru:giveWeapon.md|ru:giveWeapon]]