 
{{Server client function}}
This function adds money to a [[/player.md|player]]'s current money amount.  To set absolute values, [[/setPlayerMoney.md|setPlayerMoney]] can be used.<br>
{{Note|Using this function client side (not recommended) will not change a players money server side.}}

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool givePlayerMoney ( player thePlayer, int amount )</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/player.md|player]]:giveMoney|money}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' the [[/player.md|player]] you are giving the money to.
*'''amount:''' a positive integer number specifying the amount of money to give to the player.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool givePlayerMoney ( int amount )</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/Player.md|Player]].giveMoney}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''amount:''' a positive integer number specifying the amount of money to give to the player.
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the money was added, or ''false'' if invalid parameters were passed.

==Example==  
<section show="true" name="Example 1 - Client and Server" class="server">
This example gives a player money when using "givecash" command.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function consoleGiveCash ( thePlayer, command, amount ) --when the givecash command is called
	givePlayerMoney ( thePlayer, amount ) --give the player money according to the amount
end
addCommandHandler ( "givecash", consoleGiveCash  ) --add a handler function for the command "givecash"
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section show="true" name="Example 2 - Server" class="server">
This example gives a player one thousand dollars, as a reward for killing another player.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function rewardOnWasted ( ammo, killer, killerweapon, bodypart )
	--if there is a killer, and that killer is not the same person as whoever died
	if ( killer ) and ( killer ~= source ) then 
		givePlayerMoney ( killer, 1000 ) --reward the killer with 1000 cash.
	end
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerWasted", getRootElement(), rewardOnWasted ) --attach the rewardOnWasted function to the relevant event.
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section show="true" name="Example 3 - Server" class="server">
This example Creates money Money (dollar symbol) pickup and gives 30,000 dollars on Pick up hit.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local money = createPickup (1896.4000244141, -1950.9000244141, 13, 3, 1274, 10000 )
function pickupUse ( player )
    givePlayerMoney ( player, 30000 )
end
addEventHandler ( "onPickupUse", money, pickupUse )</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Player functions}}
[[/ru:GivePlayerMoney.md|ru:GivePlayerMoney]]