{{Client function}}
 
This function allows the disabling or enabling of ''sorting'' within a gridlist.  Sorting is achieved by clicking a column header.  Gridlist items will be sorted according to the clicked column.  By default, gridlists have sorting enabled.  This function will allow you to toggle this.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool guiGridListSetSortingEnabled ( element guiGridlist, bool enabled )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''guiGridlist:''' The GUI gridlist you wish to toggle the sorting of.
*'''enabled:''' A boolean representing whether the sorting is enabled, or disabled.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if sorting was successfully toggled., ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 

'''Example 1:''' This example creates a gridlist, fills it with players connected to the server and disables the sorting for that gridlist

<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function createGridList ()
	--Create the grid list element
	local newGridlist = guiCreateGridList ( 0.50, 0.50, 0.20, 0.30, true )
	--Create a new grid list
        local column = guiGridListAddColumn( newGridlist, "Players", 0.85 )
	if ( column ) then --If the column has been created, fill it with players
		for id, player in ipairs(getElementsByType("player")) do
			local row = guiGridListAddRow ( newGridlist )
			guiGridListSetItemText ( newGridlist, row, column, getPlayerName ( player ), false, false )
		end
	end
	guiGridListSetSortingEnabled ( newGridlist, false )
        --Disable sorting for the gridlist
end
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{GUI functions}}