
Multi Theft Auto has loads of areas in which you can help us. In turn, we'll be more than happy to help you get started with any ideas you have, help test them and - if they're good enough - release them to the whole community. This page outlines the key areas you could do something in, of course, there are many things we've not thought of, so think outside the box!

==Coding for MTA:SA==
* Create pull requests for the mod, containing requested features or bugfixes. ([[/Coding guidelines.md|Coding guidelines]])
* Translate MTA:SA to your native language - http://translate.multitheftauto.com/

==Scripting==
* Create a gamemode 
**[[/Scripting Introduction.md|Scripting Introduction]]
**[http://www.lua.org/pil/index.html "Programming in Lua" Manual]
* Create an administration page on the HTTP server.
**[[/Resource Web Access.md|Resource Web Access]]
* Make a general purpose resource that provides useful functions to other resources.

==Mapping==
* Create a map with the map editor for an existing gamemode.
**[[/Resource:Editor.md|Map Editor Manual]]

==Web development==
* Work with lil_Toady to add new features and improvements to community.mtasa.com.
* Create your own system for statistics - using the [[/PHP SDK.md|PHP SDK]] as a basis. Contact eAi or jbeta for help.

==Documentation==
Before you make changes check out: [[/Help:Editing_Guidelines.md|Editing Guidelines]] and [[/Help:MTA_Wiki_Specific_Templates.md|Specific Templates]]
* Finish documentation for [[/:Category:Incomplete.md|Incomplete functions]] - ask in #mta.scripting if you're not sure of something.
* Add examples to [[/:Category:Needs_Example.md|functions & events missing examples]] - please '''test''' them, and again, ask if you need help.
* Review and verify [[/:Category:Needs_Checking.md|pages that need checking]] - make sure highlighted issues are solved before removing pages from the category.
* Expand the pages that explain [[/:Category:Scripting_Concepts.md|MTA core concepts]].
* Write tutorials to help new people.
* Translate the wiki pages so people from other countries can get started in MTA too.
* Create documentation for undocumented functions and events [[/Undocumented Items.md|Undocumented Items]]

==Specific tasks==
* Create a fuzzer to check for crashes in our scripting functions.
* Help develop/fix existing gamemodes. Contact the original author on IRC (or ask a developer) to tell the author so you can work together.
* The web interface resources (resourcemanager, resourcebrowser and webadmin chiefly) are really only compatible with Firefox. Someone could put in some time to make these work on Internet Explorer, Opera and Safari. See [[/User_talk:EAi.md|eAi]] for help.

[[/pl:Jak możesz pomóc.md|pl:Jak możesz pomóc]]
[[/ru:How you can help.md|ru:How you can help]]
[[/es:Cómo puedes ayudar.md|es:Cómo puedes ayudar]]
[[/hu:How you can help.md|hu:How you can help]]
[[/tr:Nasıl yardımcı olabilirsiniz.md|tr:Nasıl yardımcı olabilirsiniz]]