{{Useful Function}}

This function just adds a possibility to integrate a condition in e.g. some variable definition. It is as useful as simple. It's like the short “(c) ? t : f ;” statement that exists in e.g. PHP or JavaScript, or COALESCE in MySQL. It simulates a ternary operation.

''Note: This function is basically on the wiki to enable using it in other useful functions.''

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">var IfElse( bool condition, var trueReturn, var falseReturn )</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
* '''condition''': A condition like you could use it in an if-statement.
* '''trueReturn''': The value that should be returned if the condition is true.
* '''falseReturn''': The value that should be returned if the condition is false.

===Returns===
Returns the second argument if condition is true, the third otherwise.

==Code==
<section name="Server- and/or clientside Script" class="both" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function IfElse(condition, trueReturn, falseReturn)
    if (condition) then return trueReturn
    else return falseReturn end
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Example==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example adds a command to retrieve the actual player count.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- define the commandhandler function
function CmdPlayerCount(source)
    -- get the actual player count
    local playerCount = getPlayerCount()
    -- send message to the player
    outputChatBox("There "..IfElse(playerCount == 1, "is", "are").." actually "..playerCount.." Player"..IfElse(playerCount == 1, "", "s").." online.", source)
end
-- add the command handler
addCommandHandler("playerCount", CmdPlayerCount, false, false)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

Author: NeonBlack

==See Also==
{{Useful_Functions}}