
{{Client function}}
{{New feature/item|3.0150|1.5||
This function loads the specified URL.
}}

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/Element/Browser.md|browser]]:loadURL|url|getBrowserURL}}

===Required arguments===
*'''webBrowser:''' The [[/Element/Browser.md|browser]] element which will load the URL
*'''url:''' The url you want to load. It can either contain a remote website ("http://" prefix) or a website stored within a local resource ("http://mta/local/gui.html" for example).
*'''postData:''' The post data passed to the website. Its content type can be any type (e.g. JSON) if urlEncoded is set to ''false''
*'''urlEncoded:''' If set to ''true'', it will be available f.e. in PHP's $_POST variable (the content type is: ''application/x-www-form-urlencoded'')

{{Warning|The scheme for local files was changed recently. Please read [[/Local_Scheme_Handler.md|Local Scheme Handler]] for details.|true}}

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the URL was successfully loaded.

==Example==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- In order to render the browser on the full screen, we need to know the dimensions.
local screenWidth, screenHeight = guiGetScreenSize()

-- Let's create a new browser in local mode. We will not be able to load an external URL.
local webBrowser = createBrowser(screenWidth, screenHeight, false, false)
	
-- This is the function to render the browser.
function webBrowserRender()
	-- Render the browser on the full size of the screen.
	dxDrawImage(0, 0, screenWidth, screenHeight, webBrowser, 0, 0, 0, tocolor(255,255,255,255), true)
end

-- The event onClientBrowserCreated will be triggered, after the browser has been initialized.
-- After this event has been triggered, we will be able to load our URL and start drawing.
addEventHandler("onClientBrowserCreated", webBrowser, 
	function()
		-- After the browser has been initialized, we can load our website.
		loadBrowserURL(webBrowser, "https://www.youtube.com/")

		-- Now we can start to render the browser.
		addEventHandler("onClientRender", root, webBrowserRender)
	end
)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See also==
{{CEF_functions}}