 
{{Server function}}
This functions logs the given player in to the given [[/account.md|account]]. You need to provide the password needed to log into that account.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool logIn ( player thePlayer, account theAccount, string thePassword )
</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/player.md|player]]:logIn||}}

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' The player to log into an account
*'''theAccount:''' The account to log the player into
*'''thePassword:''' The password needed to sign into this account

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the player was successfully logged into the given account. Returns ''false'' or ''nil'' if the log in failed for some reason, ie. the player was already logged in to some account (use [[/logOut.md|logOut]] first), if the account was already in use or if it failed for some other reason.

==Example== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function loginPlayer ( thePlayer, command, username, password )
	local account = getAccount ( username, password ) -- Return the account
		if ( account ~= false ) then -- If the account exists.
			logIn ( thePlayer, account, password ) -- Log them in.
		else
			outputChatBox ( "Wrong username or password!", thePlayer, 255, 255, 0 ) -- Output they got the details wrong.
		end
end
addCommandHandler ( "log-in", loginPlayer ) -- Make it trigger for "/log-in", NOTE: /login is hardcored and cannot be used.
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Account_functions}}

[[/ru:logIn.md|ru:logIn]]
[[/ar:logIn.md|ar:logIn]]