The ''meta.xml'' file presents MTA with a set of metadata, such as the resource's name, the scripts to include, and which files to precache for sending to clients among other things. It is also the scope of "elements". It is written in XML, which is based on HTML and is the parent of XHTML.

=Tags=
XML is a textual data format which is widely used for the representation of data. MTA uses an XML-based language to describe the metadata for resources by using the tags below:

*'''<info />''' Information about this resource, possible parameters include (any arbitrary parameters can be used and read using [[/getResourceInfo.md|getResourceInfo]]):
** '''author:''' The author of this resource
** '''version:''' The version of this resource
** '''name:''' The name of this resource
** '''description:''' A brief description of this resource
** '''type:''' The type of this resource, that can be "gamemode", "script", "map" or "misc".
*'''<script />''' Source code for this resource, possible parameters are:
** '''src:''' The file name of the source code
** '''type:''' The type of source code: "client", "server" or "shared".
**'''cache:''' When the script file type is "client", this setting controls whether the file is saved on the clients' hard drive. Default is "true". Using "false" will mean the file is not saved. ''(Note: cache=false files are started at the client first, so lua file load order might differ when mixing cache settings)''
**'''validate:''' If set to "false", compatibility checks are skipped.
*'''<map />''' The map for a gamemode, possible parameters are:
**'''src:''' .map file name (can be path too eg. "maps/filename.map")
**'''dimension:''' Dimension in which the map will be loaded (optional)
*'''<file />''' A client-side file. Generally these are images, .txd, .col, .dff or .xml files. They'll be downloaded by clients when the resources is started (or on join)
**'''src:''' client-side file name (can be path too eg. "images/image.png")
<!--
**'''download:''' Whether or not to be sent to the client automatically (optional). Default is "true". Using "false" will mean they are not sent on resource start but could later be used by [[/downloadFile.md|downloadFile]] (from version 1.4)
-->
*'''<include />''' Include resources that this resource will use
**'''resource:''' Resource name that you want to start with this resource
**'''minversion:''' Minimum version that '''resource''' needs to be (optional)
**'''maxversion:''' Maximum version that '''resource''' needs to be (optional)
*'''<config />''' Config file (.xml) can be accessed by resource, possible parameters are:
**'''src:''' The file name of the config file
**'''type:''' The type of the config file: "client" or "server"
*'''<export />''' This exports functions from this resource, so other resources can use them with [[/call.md|call]]
**'''function:''' The function name
**'''type''' Whether function is exported server-side or client-side (valid values are: "client", "server" and "shared")
**'''http:''' Can the function be called via HTTP (true/false)
*'''<html />'''
**'''src:''' The filename for the HTTP file (can be a path)
**'''default:''' The html file is one that is shown by default when visiting /resourceName/ on the server. Only one html can be default, the rest are ignored. (true/false)
**'''raw:''' The html file is not parsed by the Lua interpreter and is treated as binary data. Must be used for binary files (images mainly) (true/false)
*'''<settings> <setting name="" value=""/> </settings>:''' Most gamemodes use [[/settings system.md|settings system]] to let server admins to configure it how they like. For instance you could set round time and then use [[/get.md|get]] and [[/set.md|set]] to get the value or change it, respectively.
*'''<min_mta_version />''' Minimum version requirements for this resource to run correctly. When authoring resources, the minimum version should usually be set to the current released version of MTA:SA (which at the moment is "{{Current Version|full}}"). See example for example.
**'''client:''' The minimum client version
**'''server:''' The minimum server version
*'''<aclrequest />''' A list of [[/Access_Control_List.md|ACL]] rights this resource will need.
{{New items|3.0132|1.3.1 r4141|
*'''<sync_map_element_data />''' Controls whether map [[/Element_data.md|element data]] such as "PosX" and "DoubleSided" are transferred to the client. This data is usually not required by most gamemodes or resources. (Map Editor and Interiors require this to be not set to false to work). When set in a gamemode meta.xml, the setting will apply to all maps loaded by that resource.
**'''false:''' Disable transfer of map element data for all resources. This can reduce map download times considerably.
**'''true:''' Enable transfer of map element data for all resources. (If '''false''' and '''true''' are set in different resources, true will have priority and all resources will transfer map element data)
}}
{{New items|3.0140|1.4.0 r5313|
*'''<oop/>''' OOP - Please refer to [[/OOP.md|OOP]] for documentation.
**'''false:''' Disable OOP.
**'''true:''' Enable OOP.
}}
{{New feature/item|3.0150|1.5.0|7308|
*'''<download_priority_group/>''' If not set, the download priority group for a resource defaults to 0. If this is set higher than 0, then the resource will be downloaded and started on the client earlier than other resources. If set to less than 0, the resource will be downloaded and started on the client later than other resources.
}}

== Example ==
Heres an example of a meta file using some of the tags mentioned:
{{#tag:code |
<meta>
    <info author="Slothman" type="gamemode" name="Stealth" />
    <config src="help.xml" type="client"/>

    <download_priority_group>0</download_priority_group>
    <min_mta_version client="{{Current Version|full}}" server="{{Current Version|full}}" />

    <sync_map_element_data>false</sync_map_element_data>

    <script src="stealthmain_server.lua" />
    <script src="noiseblip.lua" />
    <script src="mission_timer.lua" />
    <script src="gadgets_server.lua" />
    <script src="gadgets_client.lua" type="client"/>
    <script src="stealthmain_client.lua" type="client" validate="true"/>
    <script src="noisebar.lua" type="client"/>
    <script src="spycam.lua" type="client"/>
    <script src="riemann_z_demonstration.lua" type="client" cache="false"/>
    <map src="base.map" dimension="1"/>

    <file src="riot_shield.txd" />
    <file src="riot_shield.dff" />
    <file src="riot_shield.col" />
    <file src="armor.png"/>
    <file src="camera.png"/>
    <file src="cloak.png" />
    <file src="goggles.png" />
    <file src="mine.png" />
    <file src="radar.png" />
    <file src="shield.png" />

    <include resource="scoreboard" />
    <include resource="killmessages" />
    <include resource="maplimits" />
    
    <export function="exampleExport1" type="server" />
    <export function="exampleExport2" type="client" />
    <export function="exampleExport3" type="shared" />

    <settings>
         <setting name="roundlimit" value="[6]" /> <!-- round length in minutes -->
	 <setting name="teamdamage" value="[1]" /> <!-- 0 for team protection off, 1 for team protection on -->
	 <setting name="teambalance" value="[1]" /> <!--  difference limit of amount of players between teams -->
	 <setting name="spazammo" value="[25]" /> <!-- ammo amounts -->
	 <setting name="m4ammo" value="[100]" />
	 <setting name="shotgunammo" value="[25]" />
	 <setting name="sniperammo" value="[20]" />
	 <setting name="ak47ammo" value="[120]" />
	 <setting name="rifleammo" value="[40]" />
	 <setting name="deserteagleammo" value="[45]" />
	 <setting name="pistolammo" value="[132]" />
	 <setting name="uziammo" value="[150]" />
	 <setting name="tec9ammo" value="[150]" />
	 <setting name="silencedammo" value="[65]" />
	 <setting name="grenadeammo" value="[4]" />
	 <setting name="satchelammo" value="[4]" />
	 <setting name="teargasammo" value="[4]" />
	 <setting name="molatovammo" value="[4]" />
	 <setting name="isAllowedToShoot" value="true" />
     </settings>

     <aclrequest>
	 <right name="function.startResource" access="true" />
	 <right name="function.stopResource" access="true" />
	 <right name="function.setPlayerMuted" access="true" />
     </aclrequest>
</meta>
|lang="xml"}}
[[/Category:Scripting Concepts.md|Category:Scripting Concepts]]
[[/cs:Meta.xml.md|cs:Meta.xml]]
[[/de:Meta.xml.md|de:Meta.xml]]
[[/es:Sobre el archivo "meta.xml".md|es:Sobre el archivo "meta.xml"]]
[[/it:Meta.xml.md|it:Meta.xml]]
[[/pl:Meta.xml.md|pl:Meta.xml]]
[[/ru:Meta.xml.md|ru:Meta.xml]]