{{Outdated}}
These questions and answers are about MTA in general.

* '''Q: When is the next version going to be released?'''

A: When it is finished.

* '''Q: Where can I find information about the next release?'''

A: Try the [http://www.mtasa.com// site]. 

* '''Q: Who is building MTA?'''

A: MTA is built by a team of volunteers. Development was started by IJsVogel and the team then slowly started to grow. You can find a list of team members by clicking [https://code.google.com/p/mtasa-blue/people/list here].

* '''Q: Are you guys being paid by Rockstar?'''

A: No, everything we do, we do as volunteers. We are not receiving money from Rockstar or any other sponsor. 

* '''Q: Can I help in the development?'''

A: Multi Theft Auto is open-source, anyone can contribute, visit the [http://bugs.multitheftauto.com// bug tracker] to see what needs fixed.

* '''Q: Where can I find the source?'''

A: The source code of MTA is available for download on [http://multitheftauto.googlecode.com the Multi Theft Auto GoogleCode page].

* '''Q: How can I donate?'''

A: You can't; the team does not accept donations. 

* '''Q: Can I place a copy on my site?'''

A: Yes, you may provide an MTA download at your site, but you must not alter any files! 

* '''Q: Can I give this to a friend?'''

A: Yes, it's freeware! 

* '''Q: How do I contact the team?'''

A: You can e-mail the team at admin@multitheftauto.com, or you can use [irc://irc.multitheftauto.com IRC]. 

* '''Q: What is IRC?'''

A: IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is the most commonly used method of internet chatting.

* '''Q: How do I use IRC?'''

A: Download mIRC from [http://www.mirc.com www.mirc.com] and follow the instructions that you can find [http://forum.mtavc.com/viewtopic.php?t=30 here].

[[/Category:Support.md|Category:Support]]