 
{{Client event}}
{{New items|3.0135|1.3.5|
This event is triggered when a vehicle is damaged.
}}
{{Note|This event is only triggered for vehicles that are streamed in}}
==Parameters== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
element theAttacker, int theWeapon, float loss, float damagePosX, float damagePosY, float damagePosZ, int tyreID
</syntaxhighlight> 

*'''theAttacker''': An element if there was an attacker.
*'''theWeapon''': An integer specifying the weapon ID if a weapon was used.
*'''loss''': A float representing the amount of damage taken.
*'''damagePosX''': A float representing the X co-ordinate of where the damage took place.
*'''damagePosY''': A float representing the Y co-ordinate of where the damage took place.
*'''damagePosZ''': A float representing the Z co-ordinate of where the damage took place.
*'''tyreID''': A number representing the tyre which took damage, if there is one.

==Source==
The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] that got damaged.

==Cancel effect==
If this event is [[/Event_system#Canceling.md|canceled]], the vehicle health won't be reduced. Physical damage to the vehicle will remain.

==Example== 
This example makes every SWAT tank immune from all weapon attacks.
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true"><syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function handleVehicleDamage(attacker, weapon, loss, x, y, z, tyre)
    if (weapon and getElementModel(source) == 601) then
        -- A weapon was used and the vehicle model ID is that of the SWAT tank so cancel the damage.
        cancelEvent()
    end
end
addEventHandler("onClientVehicleDamage", root, handleVehicleDamage)
</syntaxhighlight></section>

This example allows the Rhino to take damage from bullets even though they're bullet proof, this example doesn't work with explosions though.
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true"><syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Only let these weapons damage a Rhino
local weaponsToDamageRhino = {
	[38] = true, -- minigun
	[33] = true, -- country rifle
	[34] = true, -- sniper rifle
	[30] = true, -- AK-47
	[31] = true, -- M4
}

function handleRhinoDamage(attacker, weapon, loss, x, y, z, tyre)
	if (weapon and getElementModel(source) == 432 and loss > 0) then
		if (weaponsToDamageRhino[weapon]) then
			setElementHealth(source, getElementHealth(source) - loss)
		end
	end
end
addEventHandler("onClientVehicleDamage", root, handleRhinoDamage)
</syntaxhighlight></section>

This example will makes all vehicle Fireproof.
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function fireproofvehicle(theAttacker, theWeapon)
	if(theWeapon == 37) then
		cancelEvent()
	end
end
addEventHandler("onClientVehicleDamage", getRootElement(), fireproofvehicle)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
===Client vehicle events===
{{Client_vehicle_events}}
===Client event functions===
{{Client_event_functions}}