{{Client event}}
 
This event triggers whenever the user double-clicks his mouse.  This is linked to the GTA world, as appose to GUI for which [[/onClientGUIDoubleClick.md|onClientGUIDoubleClick]] is to be used.  This event allows detection of click positions of the 3D world.

==Parameters==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">string button, int absoluteX, int absoluteY, float worldX, float worldY, float worldZ, element clickedWorld
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''button''':  This refers the button used to click on the mouse, can be ''left'', ''right'', or ''middle'
* '''absoluteX''': This refers to the 2D ''x coordinate'' the user clicked on his screen, and is an ''absolute'' position in pixels.
* '''absoluteY''': This refers to the 2D ''y coordinate'' the user clicked on his screen, and is an ''absolute'' position in pixels.
* '''worldX''': This represents the 3D ''x coordinate'' the player clicked on the screen, and is relative to the GTA world.
* '''worldY''': This represents the 3D ''y coordinate'' the player clicked on the screen, and is relative to the GTA world.
* '''worldZ''': This represents the 3D ''z coordinate'' the player clicked on the screen, and is relative to the GTA world.
* '''clickedWorld''': This represents any physical [[/entity.md|entity]] elements that were clicked. If the player clicked on no MTA element, it's set to false.

==Source==
The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the client's [[/root element.md|root element]].

==Example==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onMyMouseDoubleClick (button, absoluteX, absoluteY, worldX, worldY,  worldZ, clickedWorld)
	if button == "left" then 
		playSoundFrontEnd(40)
	end
end
addEventHandler("onClientDoubleClick", root, onMyMouseDoubleClick)</syntaxhighlight>

[[/pl:onClientDoubleClick.md|pl:onClientDoubleClick]]

==See Also==
===GUI events===
{{GUI_events}}
===Client event functions===
{{Client_event_functions}}