{{Client event}}
 
This event is called when a player fires a weapon.  This does not trigger for projectiles, melee weapons, or camera.
{{Note|This event is only triggered for players that are streamed in}}
==Parameters==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
int weapon, int ammo, int ammoInClip, float hitX, float hitY, float hitZ, element hitElement, float startX, float startY, float startZ
</syntaxhighlight> 
*'''weapon''':  an [[/int.md|int]] representing [[/weapons.md|weapon]] used for making a shot.
*'''ammo''': an [[/int.md|int]] amount of ammo left for this weapon type.
*'''ammoInClip''': an [[/int.md|int]] amount of ammo left for this weapon type in clip.
*'''hitX''', '''hitY''', '''hitZ''': [[/float.md|float]] world coordinates representing a hit point.
*'''hitElement''': an [[/element.md|element]] which was hit by a shot.
{{New feature/item|3.0131|1.3.1|4311|
*'''startX''', '''startY''', '''startZ''': [[/float.md|float]] world coordinates representing the start of the bullet. Note: This is not the gun muzzle.
}}

==Source==
The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the streamed in [[/player.md|player]] who fired the weapon.

==Example== 
This example sends a warning to the local player if they shoot another player with a minigun.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
--First, we create a function for the event handler to use.
function onClientPlayerWeaponFireFunc(weapon, ammo, ammoInClip, hitX, hitY, hitZ, hitElement )
    if weapon == 38 and getElementType(hitElement)=="player" then -- If the player shoots with a minigun, and hits another player...
         outputChatBox ( "Don't kill people with minigun, it's lame!", 255, 0, 0 ) -- We output a warning to him.
    end
end
-- Add this as a handler so that the function will be triggered every time the local player fires.
addEventHandler ( "onClientPlayerWeaponFire", getLocalPlayer(), onClientPlayerWeaponFireFunc )
</syntaxhighlight>
This example makes the Shotgun fire explosive rounds.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onClientPlayerWeaponFireFunc(weapon, ammo, ammoInClip, hitX, hitY, hitZ, hitElement)
    if (weapon == 25) then -- If the player shoots with a shotgun
        createExplosion(hitX, hitY, hitZ, 12, true, 0, true) -- Creates a tiny explosion where the bullet hit.
    end
end
-- Add this as a handler so that the function will be triggered every time a player fires.
addEventHandler("onClientPlayerWeaponFire", root, onClientPlayerWeaponFireFunc)
</syntaxhighlight>

==Issues==
{{Issues|
{{Issue|7459|[Fixed in 1.3.1-4916] onClientPlayerWeaponFire hitElement being nil sometimes with shotgun}}
}}

==See Also==
===Client player events===
{{Client_player_events}}
===Client event functions===
{{Client_event_functions}}