 
{{Server event}}
This event is triggered when a player types a message into his console. It is also triggered when entering '/' commands via the chatbox.
{{Note|The event will not be triggered if the message can be processed by an existing command handler}}

==Parameters==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
string theMessage
</syntaxhighlight> 

*'''theMessage''': a string representing the message typed into the console.

==Source==
The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the [[/player.md|player]] that entered the message in the console. This can be a player or the server console.

==Example== 
This example adds the ''yo'' command into the script. For example, if a player called Bob types "yo likes pie" in console, it will display "* Bob likes pie" in the chatbox.
:'''NOTE:''' this script is for example purposes only. This can be done in a more efficient way with [[/addCommandHandler.md|addCommandHandler]].
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function input_Console ( text ) --when a player types in the console
	-- if it's an ingame player,
	if ( getElementType ( source ) == "player" ) then
		--split the command by spaces (ASCII 32) and get the first piece of text
		local command = gettok ( text, 1, 32 )
		--if the first piece of text was "yo",
		if ( command == "yo" ) then
			--get the player's name
			local playerName = getPlayerName ( source )
			-- get the action text by substracting the first three characters ("yo ")
			local actionText = string.sub ( text, 3 )
			-- announce the yo command into the chatbox
			outputChatBox ( "* " .. playerName .. " " .. actionText, getRootElement(), 255, 255, 0 )
		end
	end
end
addEventHandler ( "onConsole", getRootElement(), input_Console ) -- add an event handler for onConsole
</syntaxhighlight>

{{See also/Server event|Client events}}

[[/ru:onConsole.md|ru:onConsole]]