 
{{Server event}}
This event is triggered when an elementdata entry for an element changes. A client can perform this change on the element or it can be done using [[/setElementData.md|setElementData]].

==Parameters==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
string theName, var theOldValue
</syntaxhighlight> 

*'''theName''': The name of the element data entry that changed
*'''theOldValue''': The old value of this entry before it changed. The new value can be accessed using [[/getElementData.md|getElementData]] ( source, theName ).

==Global parameters==
*'''source''': The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the [[/element.md|element]] whose element data changed
*'''client''': The [[/event_system#Event_client.md|client]] global variable is set to the client that called [[/setElementData.md|setElementData]], or nil if it was called on the server.
*'''sourceResource''': The [[/resource.md|resource]] which changed the element data. (Only works in versions above 1.3.4-5937)

==Cancelling==
This event cannot be cancelled using [[/cancelEvent.md|cancelEvent]]. To reverse the effect, use [[/setElementData.md|setElementData]] with the old value. See Example.
 
==Example== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<!-- Explain what the example is in a single sentance -->
This example outputs a message to players when any of their element data values is changed.
<!-- Add the code below, an emphasis should be on making it clear, not optimized. You could provide two versions if you wish, one clear and well commented, the other optimized -->
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function outputChange(dataName,oldValue)
	if getElementType(source) == "player" then -- check if the element is a player
		local newValue = getElementData(source,dataName) -- find the new value
		outputChatBox("Your element data '"..tostring(dataName).."' has changed from '"..tostring(oldValue).."' to '"..tostring(newValue).."'",source) -- output the change for the affected player
	end
end
addEventHandler("onElementDataChange",getRootElement(),outputChange)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<!-- Explain what the example is in a single sentance -->
This example checks and possibly reverses an element's data change.
<!-- Add the code below, an emphasis should be on making it clear, not optimized. You could provide two versions if you wish, one clear and well commented, the other optimized -->
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function checkChange(dataName,oldValue)
    if client then
        -- The client can only set 'special_thing' on its own player
        if (dataName == "special_thing" and client ~= source) then
            outputChatBox( "Illegal setting of "..tostring(dataName).."' by '"..tostring(getPlayerName(client)) )
            setElementData( source, dataName, oldValue ) -- Set back the original value
        end
    end
end
addEventHandler("onElementDataChange",getRootElement(),checkChange)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
{{See also/Server event|Element events}}