
{{Server event}}
This event is triggered when a player attempts to connect to the server.

==Parameters==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
string playerNick, string playerIP, string playerUsername, string playerSerial, int playerVersionNumber, string playerVersionString
</syntaxhighlight> 

*'''playerNick''': The player's current nickname.
*'''playerIP''': The player's current IP.
*'''playerUsername''': The player's community username.
*'''playerSerial''': The player's serial number.
*'''playerVersionNumber''': The player's MTA version in pure numerical form, e.g. ''''256'''' for 1.0, ''''257'''' for 1.0.1, etc.
*'''playerVersionString''': The player's MTA version in sortable string form. Same as the return value from [[/getPlayerVersion.md|getPlayerVersion]].

==Source==
The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the client's [[/root element.md|root element]].

==Cancel effect==
If this event is [[/Event_system#Canceling.md|canceled]], the player will be disconnected with an error message saying the reason specified in cancelEvent or "Disconnected: server refused the connection" if none was specified.

==Example== 
<!-- Explain what the example is in a single sentance -->
This example cancels connection attempts of people who use the nick "Player" or outputs some data about the connecting player otherwise.
<!-- Add the code below, an emphasis should be on making it clear, not optimized. You could provide two versions if you wish, one clear and well commented, the other optimized -->
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
--when a player connects
function playerConnect (playerNick, playerIP, playerUsername, playerSerial, playerVersionNumber)
    if playerNick == "Player" then --check if his nick is "Player"
        cancelEvent(true,"The nick \"Player\" is not allowed, please change it to something else. You can change your nick in Settings menu Multiplayer tab.") --in that case refuse the connection
    else
        --output some data about the player
        outputChatBox (playerNick.." just connected to the server.")
        outputChatBox ("IP: "..playerIP.." Username: "..playerUsername.." Serial: "..playerSerial)
    end
end

--add the playerConnect function as a handler for onPlayerConnect
addEventHandler ("onPlayerConnect", getRootElement(), playerConnect)
</syntaxhighlight>

This example cancels connection if player uses older MTA (older than 1.0.3)
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEventHandler( "onPlayerConnect", getRootElement(),
    function ( _,_,_,_, clientVersion )
        if ( clientVersion < 259 ) then
            cancelEvent( true, "Update your MTA before you join this server!" );
        end
    end
)
</syntaxhighlight>

{{See also/Server event|Player events}}