 
{{Server event}}
This event is triggered when a player is damaged, in any way.

*This event is not triggered when attacked by a team member if friendly fire is enabled.
*Canceling this event has no effect. Cancel the client-side event [[/onClientPlayerDamage.md|onClientPlayerDamage]] instead.
*onPlayerDamage doesn't trigger if the damage kills the player, [[/onPlayerWasted.md|onPlayerWasted]] is called instead. 

==Parameters==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
player attacker, int attackerweapon, int bodypart, float loss
</syntaxhighlight> 

*'''attacker''': A player element representing the player who was the attacker.  If there was no attacker this returns false.
*'''attackerweapon''': An integer representing the weapon the attacker used to kill the player
*'''bodypart''': An integer representing the bodypart ID the player was hit on when he got damaged.
{{BodyParts}}
*'''loss''': A float representing the percentage of health the player lost.

==Source==
The [[/event_system#Event_source.md|source]] of this event is the [[/player.md|player]] who was damaged.

==Example== 
This example causes an instant kill when a player is shot in the head, and announces it in the chatbox.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
--add an event handler for the onPlayerDamage event
function playerDamage_text ( attacker, weapon, bodypart, loss ) --when a player is damaged
	if ( bodypart == 9 ) then -- if the body part is 9, i.e. the head
            outputChatBox ( "Headshot!", getRootElement (), 255, 170, 0 ) --output "Headshot" into the chatbox
	    killPed ( source, attacker, weapon, bodypart ) -- and kill the player
	end
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerDamage", getRootElement (), playerDamage_text )
</syntaxhighlight>

==Issues==
{{Issues|
{{Issue|6495|[Fixed in 1.3.3-5411] onPlayerDamage has wrong parameters if source on vehicle}}
{{Issue|8082|Custom weapons & objects don't fully work with ped damage events}}
}}

{{See also/Server event|Player events}}