 
{{Client function}}
Creates a [[/sound.md|sound]] [[/element.md|element]] in the GTA world and plays it immediately after creation for the local player. [[/setElementPosition.md|setElementPosition]] can be used to move the [[/sound.md|sound]] element around after it has been created. Remember to use [[/setElementDimension.md|setElementDimension]] after creating the sound to play it outside of dimension 0.<br />
<br />
{{Note|
*The only supported audio formats are MP3, WAV, OGG, RIFF, MOD, XM, IT and S3M.
*For performance reasons, when using playSound3D for effects that will be played lots (i.e. weapon fire), it is recommend that you convert your audio file to a one channel (mono) WAV with sample rate of 22050 Hz or less. Also consider adding a limit on how often the effect can be played e.g. once every 50ms.}}
==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/Sound.md|Sound3D]]}}
===Required Arguments===
*'''soundPath:''' the [[/filepath.md|filepath]] to the sound file you want to play. (Sound file has to be predefined in the [[/meta.xml.md|meta.xml]] file with <file /> tag. And also can use url instead of [[/filepath.md|filepath]] )
*'''soundURL:''' the URL. (In this version the file does not has to be predefined in the [[/meta.xml.md|meta.xml]] )
*'''x:''' a [[/float.md|float]]ing point number representing the X coordinate on the map.
*'''y:''' a [[/float.md|float]]ing point number representing the Y coordinate on the map.
*'''z:''' a [[/float.md|float]]ing point number representing the Z coordinate on the map.

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''looped:''' A [[/boolean.md|boolean]] representing whether the sound will be looped. To loop the sound, use ''true''.
{{New feature/item|3.0150|1.5||
*'''throttled:''' a [[/boolean.md|boolean]] representing whether the sound will be throttled (i.e. given reduced download bandwidth). To throttle the sound, use ''true''.
}}

===Returns===
Returns a [[/sound.md|sound]] [[/element.md|element]] if the sound was successfully created, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
This example creates a looping sound within a pizza shop. The pizza shop is in san fierro near pier 69
<section name="Example" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onResourceStart()
	local sound = playSound3D("sounds/song.mp3", 373.14, -125.21, 1001, true) 
end
addEventHandler("onClientResourceStart", resourceRoot, onResourceStart)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
This example play internet radio in groove street.
<section name="Example 2" class="client" show="true" >
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEventHandler( 'onClientResourceStart', resourceRoot,
	function( )
		local uSound = playSound3D( 'http://193.34.51.25:80', 2498, -1659, 12 ) 
		setSoundMaxDistance( uSound, 100 )
	end
)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Client_audio_functions}}
[[/AR:playSound3D.md|AR:playSound3D]]
[[/DE:playSound3D.md|DE:playSound3D]]
[[/RU:playSound3D.md|RU:playSound3D]]