{{Disabled|Its functionality left for a post-r1 release|1838}}
{{Server client function}}

This function preloads a game sound into a specific sound slot. The sound can then be played with [[/PlayMissionAudio.md|PlayMissionAudio]].

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool preloadMissionAudio ( player thePlayer, int sound, int slot )   
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' the [[/player.md|player]] you want to play the sound for.
*'''sound:''' the [[/int.md|int]] sound id to play (interpreted as unsigned short). Valid values are those from the '''data/AudioEvents.txt''' file.
*'''slot:''' [[/int.md|int]] sound slot in which you preloaded the sound.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool preloadMissionAudio ( int sound, int slot )   
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''sound:''' the [[/int.md|int]] sound id to play (interpreted as unsigned short). Valid values are those from the '''data/AudioEvents.txt''' file.
*'''slot:''' [[/int.md|int]] sound slot in which you preloaded the sound.
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the sound was successfully preloaded, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==  
<section name="server" class="server" show="true">
This example plays a sound when a player spawns
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onPlayerSpawn ( theSpawnpoint, theTeam )
    preloadMissionAudio ( source, 5000, 1 )
    local x, y, z = getElementPosition ( source )
    playMissionAudio ( source, 1, x, y, z )
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerSpawn", getElementRoot(), onPlayerSpawn )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="client" class="client" show="true">
This example plays a sound when the server triggers the onSoundEvent client event.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onSoundEvent ( )
    preloadMissionAudio ( source, 5000, 1 )
    local x, y, z = getElementPosition ( source )
    playMissionAudio ( 1, x, y, z )
end
addEvent ( "onSoundEvent" )
addEventHandler ( "onSoundEvent", getElementRoot(), onSoundEvent )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Audio_functions}}