 
{{Server client function}}
This functions removes a handler function from an [[/event.md|event]], so that the function is not called anymore when the event is triggered. See [[/event system.md|event system]] for more information on how the event system works.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool removeEventHandler ( string eventName, element attachedTo, function functionVar ) 
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''eventName:''' The name of the [[/event.md|event]] you want to detach the handler function from.
*'''attachedTo:''' The [[/element.md|element]] the handler was attached to.
*'''functionVar:''' The handler function that was attached.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the event handler was removed successfully. Returns ''false'' if the specified event handler could not be found or invalid parameters were passed.

==Example==
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This example shows how to toggle a message on/off a screen with a command.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">

function drawText() -- A function to draw the text we want
	dxDrawText(text, 10,100) -- creates a dx text 10 pixels from left, 100 from top of the screen
end
function doText(command, ...)
	if command == "starttext" then -- if player wrote /starttext
		text = table.concat({...}," ") -- then we retrieve the text
		addEventHandler("onClientRender", getRootElement(), drawText) 		-- and since addEventHandler and removeEventHandler's syntax is the same, we just define the function we use later
	elseif command == "stoptext" then
		removeEventHandler("onClientRender", getRootElement(), drawText) 	-- this time we use removeEventHandler
	end
end
addCommandHandler("starttext", doText) -- add two command handlers to doText function
addCommandHandler("stoptext", doText)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Event_functions}}
[[/ru:removeEventHandler.md|ru:removeEventHandler]]