{{Server client function}}

==Description==
This function removes an already existing upgrade from the specified vehicle, eg: nos, hydraulics. Defined in San Andreas\data\maps\veh_mods\veh_mods.ide.

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool removeVehicleUpgrade ( vehicle theVehicle, int upgrade )</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
*'''theVehicle''': The [[/element.md|element]] representing the [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] you wish to remove the upgrade from
*'''upgrade''': The ID of the upgrade you wish to remove.

==Returns==
Returns ''true'' if the upgrade was successfully removed from the vehicle, otherwise ''false''.

==Example==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This script defines a 'nos' console command that adds a NOS upgrade to the vehicle that the player who executes the command is sitting in.  It also adds a 'removenos' command which allows removal of a player's nos.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function addNOS ( sourcePlayer, command )
    theVehicle = getPlayerOccupiedVehicle ( sourcePlayer )
    if ( theVehicle ) then
        addVehicleUpgrade ( theVehicle, 1010 )     -- NOS 10x
    end
end
addCommandHandler ( "nos", addNOS )

function remNOS ( sourcePlayer, command )
    theVehicle = getPlayerOccupiedVehicle ( sourcePlayer )
    if ( theVehicle ) then
        removeVehicleUpgrade ( theVehicle, 1010 )
    end
end
addCommandHandler ( "removenos", remNOS )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="false">
This script defines a 'nos' console command that adds a NOS upgrade to the vehicle that the player who executes the command is sitting in.  It also adds a 'removenos' command which allows removal of a player's nos.  This example is clientside and may cause desync.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function addNOS ( command )
    theVehicle = getPlayerOccupiedVehicle ( getLocalPlayer() )
    if ( theVehicle ) then
        addVehicleUpgrade ( theVehicle, 1010 )     -- NOS 10x
    end
end
addCommandHandler ( "nos", addNOS )

function remNOS ( command )
    theVehicle = getPlayerOccupiedVehicle ( getLocalPlayer() )
    if ( theVehicle ) then
        removeVehicleUpgrade ( theVehicle, 1010 )
    end
end
addCommandHandler ( "removenos", remNOS )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Vehicle functions}}