{{Outdated|Resource not included in recent MTA distributions.}}
{{Resource page}}
 *rewriting in prgress*
Interstate69 is based on the Interstate series for PC. Its basicly a car game, with weapons mounted on the cars.

Creating a map for Interstate is rather simple. But Interstate also supports your own script, and can fairly easy be remade to basicly anything.

=So... What do I do?=
* Once you join you will be presented with a GUI where you can choose your vehicle and weapons.
** If you join in the middle of a game, you have to wait for the next round before you can spawn.
* Spawnpoints are choosen randomly out of the ones provided in the .map file.
* Once you spawn, destroy your opponents at all costs!
** Be sure not to die yourself.
* Once every opponent has been eliminated, you will gain a "win" point, and the game will restart.

===Playing and weapons===
* Use mouse1 and mouse2 to fire your primary and secondary weapon.
* The stinger is placed with R.

=Creating an Interstate69 map=
Interstate69 is fairly easy to map. You have a few options to choose from.

* create a map with the default settings.
* create a map with your own setting
** requiers a script alongside your map file.

=Map Syntaxes=
To create an Interstate69 map, all of these syntaxes have to exsist. ''Note that these elements may change before release.''

==Interstate69 Settings Example==
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<settings respawntime="3000" maxdeath="5" elimination="1" spawnprotection="5000" allowedspawntime="300" />
</syntaxhighlight>

====Settings - description====
* '''respawntime:''' How long you have to wait before you respawn after being killed. Time is in milliseconds.
* '''maxdeath:''' For elimination - how many times you can die before getting eliminated.
* '''elimination:''' This small setting is one of the most important ones. Change this to "0" to use your own script.
** This setting will disable almost everything in Interstate, such as spawning, scoring, spectating etc etc.
* '''spawnprotection:''' How long time after spawn should you be protected
* '''allowedspawntime:''' Defines how long '''new''' people should be able to spawn after a round has begun. Time is in Minutes


==Camera Example==
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml"><camera posX="306.56988525391" posY="1412.0191650391" posZ="88.63539123535" targetX="579.46563720703" targetY="1344.4914550781" targetZ="10.268367767334" /></syntaxhighlight>

A camera view you will see when choosing a vehicle etc.

====Camera - description====
* '''posX, posY, posZ:''' Position of the camera
* '''targetX, targetY, targetZ:''' The position the camera will look at.



==Gamearea Example==
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml"><gamearea posX="505.837" posY="1443.684" posZ="4.6" size="380" /></syntaxhighlight>

A gamearea is a very good idea to have on maps without fysical walls.
This prevents people from driving away and hide, instead of fight like a man!

====Gamearea - description====
* '''posX, posY, posZ:''' The position of the area, should be in the center of the map/gamearea
* '''size:''' the size of the allowed area, in radius.

==Spawnpoints==
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<spawnpoint posX="526.4742" posY="1561.264" posZ="1.4321" rot="100"/>
</syntaxhighlight>

Spawnpoints defines where to spawn. You can have as many spawnpoints as you want.

====Required Attributes====
* '''posX, posY, posZ:''' The position to spawn. Interstate uses an internal randInt of 10, to prevent people to spawn ontop of eachother.
* '''rot:''' the rotation you will spawn with.
** this does not currently affect the rotation of the vehicles.


==Vehicles: How-to add==
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<tehVehicle id="Elegy" model="562" image="elegy.png" resource="Interstate69"> 
	<primary name="Minigun" id="Minigun" type="minigun" model="2985" image="elegy_minigun.png" posX="0.5" posY="1.3" posZ="-0.7" rotX="0" rotY="0" rotZ="1.5"/>
	<primary name="Small Missile" id="Small Missile" type="explosion" model="3790" image="elegy_missile.png" posX="0.7" posY="1.4" posZ="-0.2" rotX="0" rotY="0" rotZ="-1.5" posX1="-0.7" posY1="1.4" posZ1="-0.2" rotX1="0" rotY1="0" rotZ1="-1.6" />
	<secondary name="SAM x4" id="SAM x4" type="sam4" model="3267" image="elegy_sam.png" posX="0" posY="-1.5" posZ="-0.7" rotX="-0.5" rotY="0" rotZ="0" />
	<secondary name="Molotov" id="Molotov" type="molotov" model="3267" image="elegy_sam.png" posX="0" posY="-1.5" posZ="-0.7" rotX="-0.5" rotY="0" rotZ="0" />
	<accessory name="Armor" id="Armor" type="armor" />
	<accessory name="Stinger" id="Stinger" type="stinger" />
  </tehVehicle>
</syntaxhighlight>

Vehicles is the most important thing in Interstate.
Wouldnt be much fun without them, right? Ok, lets go through all the syntaxes step by step.

====The actual vehicle====
* '''tehVehicle:''' This is the elementname I use for detecting vehicles.
* '''id:''' the ID. This should be the name of the vehicle.
* '''model:''' the modelnumber, found in vehicles.ide in your gta san andreas/data folder.
* '''image:''' This defines what image should be shown on the GUI.
* '''resource:''' This tells the gamemode where to look for the images for the vehicle.

====Primary Weapons====
* '''name:''' This is the name that is displayed in the GUI.
** NOTE: The name MUST be the same as the ID! Otherwise the images WILL screw up!
* '''id:''' The id tells the gui where to look for the data
** NOTE: The ID MUST BE UNIQUE for all vehicles! I suggest you add spaces, like id="Minigun   " etc.
* '''type:''' This tells the script what kind of weapon it is. 
** Currently only minigun and explosion are reconized.
* '''model:''' The object id of the object to attach.
* '''image:''' An image to show the weapon in the GUI. Should be the same size as the vehicle image, but with transparent background
* '''posX, posY, posZ:''' The position it should attach on.
* '''posX1, posY1, posZ1:''' If you want to attach more than one object as primary weapon, define them with "posX1" etc...
** A maximum of 4 objects are supported.
* '''rotX, rotY, rotZ:''' The rotation of the object.

====Secondary Weapons====
* '''name:''' This is the name that is displayed in the GUI.
** NOTE: The name MUST be the same as the ID! Otherwise the images WILL screw up!
* '''id:''' The id tells the gui where to look for the data
** NOTE: The ID MUST BE UNIQUE for all vehicles! I suggest you add spaces, like id="Minigun   " etc.
* '''type:''' This tells the script what kind of weapon it is.
** sam, sam4, sam8, molotov and mine is supported atm.
* '''model:''' The object id of the object to attach.
* '''image:''' An image to show the weapon in the GUI. Should be the same size as the vehicle image, but with transparent background
* '''posX, posY, posZ:''' The position it should attach on.
* '''posX1, posY1, posZ1:''' If you want to attach more than one object as primary weapon, define them with "posX1" etc...
** A maximum of 3 objects are supported.
* '''rotX, rotY, rotZ:''' The rotation of the object.

====Accessories====
* '''name:''' This is the name that is displayed in the GUI.
* '''id:''' The id tells the gui where to look for the data
** NOTE: the ID does NOT have to be unique for the accessories.
* '''type:''' This tells the script what kind of weapon it is.
** Only armor and stinger is supported.

==Images: How-to add==
Adding your own images for vehicles and weapons in interstate is easy. Just follow theese guidelines and you should be fine.


===Sizing===
Images should be in '''200x296px''' .PNG format.
Weapons should be the same size as the vehicle image, but with transparent background.


===Including Images with your map===

open up your '''meta.xml'''.
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<meta>
    <info author="Lucif3r" description="Interstate" version="1" type="map" gamemodes="Interstate69"/>
	<map src="interstate.map" />
	<file src="elegy.png" />
	<file src="elegy_minigun.png" />
	<file src="elegy_missile.png" />
	<file src="elegy_sam.png" />
</meta>
</syntaxhighlight>



* '''file:''' This is where you include your images.
** NOTE: You can include as many images as you want. but try to keep the size down.


===Adding the image to the menu===
Adding images is a breeze.

Open up your .map-file, and read on.
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<tehVehicle id="Elegy" model="562" image="elegy.png" resource="Interstate69">
</syntaxhighlight>

* '''image and resource:''' This is all you need to change to get your images ingame. Image should be the '''filename''' of your image, while resource should be the name of your map'''resource'''
** NOTE: You only have to define resource for the '''vehicle''', not the weapons. Weapons automaticly reads from the same resource as the vehicle.
** NOTE: You can define different resources for different vehicles.

'''Example:'''
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<tehVehicle id="Elegy" model="562" image="elegy.png" resource="Interstate69">
</syntaxhighlight>

<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<tehVehicle id="Bandito" model="568" image="bandito.png" resource="Interstate_de" >
</syntaxhighlight>

This tells the gamemode to read all images for '''Elegy''' from the gamemode itself, Interstate69, and read all images for '''Bandito''' from the map resource, Interstate_de.



===Hardcoded vehicleimages===

Interstate69 has a few "hardcoded" vehicleimages.
Those are:
* '''Elegy'''
* '''Bandito'''
* '''BF Injection'''
* '''Sabre'''
* '''Bus'''
** NOTE: All thats "hardcoded" is the images. They can still be changed by changing the resource argument in the mapfiles.


==Example map==
Look at Interstate_de on tweaks FTP.


=OMFG OMFG! I FOUND A BUG!!!=

Im sure you did, but before you come whining to me, please read this list of known bugs and flaws.

* GUI is not always appearing
* Textitems overlap eachother
* Weapons are not being set properly (making you unable to shoot)
* Sometimes you may spawn at the same location as someone else, causing you to get stuck.
* Camera position is not being set.
* The GUI wont disapear.
* The aim for the secondary weapon is abit off.
* The primary aim sometimes disapear.
* Minigun sometimes aint making any damage.
* <del>Images only work from the gamemode's root folder.</del>

If you find something not listed here, that you think needs fixing, give me a shout on IRC.