{{Resource page}}
The help manager centralizes script help GUIs and provides a simple way to add instructions. Users can be notified with a popup the first time a resource's help page is loaded.

==Usage==
===Simple GUI===
If you just want to add a text, adding this '''exact''' (don't change src nor type) line to your meta.xml will be enough:
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<config src="help.xml" type="client"/>
</syntaxhighlight>
The contents below the root node of your '''help.xml''' file will be shown under the resource's help tab. Also, an optional popup="no" can be added to the root node to specify that you don't want the user to be notified with a popup when the page is available.

For example:
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
<help popup="no">
Help text here
</help>
</syntaxhighlight>

Help text should explain how to play the gamemode, bound keys and console commands. The help is intended for the end user, not the developer so keep it simple.

===Custom GUI===
You can add your custom help GUI by adding the tab manually in a client script:
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
myHelpTab = call(getResourceFromName("helpmanager"), "addHelpTab", getThisResource(), true)
</syntaxhighlight>
You can add contents by using the returned GUI element as GUI parent for your widgets. It is not necessary to destroy them on page remove / resource stop, as the manager does cleanup.

==Keys==
'''F9''': toggles the help window.

==Commands==
'''gamehelp''': toggles the help window.

==Exported functions==
===Server===
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool showHelp ( element showTo )</syntaxhighlight>
Shows the help window for the showTo element, propagating down the tree.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool hideHelp ( element hideTo )</syntaxhighlight>
Hides the help window for the hideTo element, propagating down the tree.

===Client===
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool showHelp ()</syntaxhighlight>
Shows the help window for the local player.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool hideHelp ()</syntaxhighlight>
Hides the help window for the local player.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight>
Adds a gui-tab with the name of the passed resource to the local player's help GUI. If showPopup is false, the "page available" popup is not shown.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool removeHelpTab ( resource forResource )</syntaxhighlight>
Adds a gui-tab with the name of the passed resource to the local player's help GUI.

==Fired events==
===Client===
''(For all events, "source" is the local player.)''
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">onHelpShown ()</syntaxhighlight>
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">onHelpHidden ()</syntaxhighlight>

[[/ru:Resource:Helpmanager.md|ru:Resource:Helpmanager]]