{{Resource page}}
{{Note_box|It is strongly advised that you validate the functions being called or potentially a client can do anything they want with your server - banning players, adding themselves as admin (depending how well your ACL is set up) etc. This is why this function is not built into MTA.}}

This resource was made off of the functions:
[[/CallClientFunction.md|CallClientFunction]]
and
[[/CallServerFunction.md|CallServerFunction]]

==Calling Functions==
<section name="callSF" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> ) </syntaxhighlight>
=Required=
*'''funcname''': The name of the function that should be called serverside. May also be a function in a table, e.g. "math.round".
=Optional=
*'''agr1-argn''': The arguments that should be passed to the function.
=Example=
This example removes the player from his team. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">-- get the local player element
local _local = getLocalPlayer()
-- define the leaveTeam command handler function
function cmdLeaveTeam()
    -- set the player's team to nil
    callServerFunction("setPlayerTeam", _local)
end
-- add the command handler
addCommandHandler("leaveTeam", cmdLeaveTeam, false)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="callCF" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> ) </syntaxhighlight>
=Required=
*'''Client''': The element of the player who should be affected. 
*'''funcname''': The name of the function that should be called serverside. May also be a function in a table, e.g. "math.round".
=Optional=
*'''agr1-argn''': The arguments that should be passed to the function.
=Example=
This example sets the player's minute duration.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">-- define the onPlayerJoin handler function
function onPlayerJoin()
    -- set the minute duration
    callClientFunction(source, "setMinuteDuration", 10000)
end
-- add the event handler
addEventHandler("onPlayerJoin", root, onPlayerJoin)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

I give all thanks to Neon Black for making these functions.
==See Also==
*[http://community.mtasa.com/index.php?p=resources&s=details&id=4858 Download]
*[[/callServerFunction.md|callServerFunction]]
*[[/callClientFunction.md|callClientFunction]]