{{Resource page}}
The resource makes it possible to render water in interiors, where normaly wouldn't be visible. It draws a line material and applies a shader effect that mimicks the gta water effect.

== Overview ==

This resource provides few convenient exported functions.
Here you can download an example of how to use that: [http://www.solidfiles.com/d/73d0427849/ Download!]

==Exported functions==
====createWaterInInterior====
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This function creates water. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments===
*'''x1, y1, z1:''' position of bottom left (south-west) corner.
*'''x2, y2, z2:''' position of bottom right (south-east) corner.
*'''x3, y3, z3:''' position of top left (north-west) corner.
*'''x4, y4, z4:''' position of top right (north-east) corner.
*'''intID:''' interior in which the water is to be created.
===Optional Arguments===
*'''effectType:''' effect type (0 - classic water, 1- watershine)

===Returns===
Returns water element if successful, ''false'' otherwise.
</section>
====createWaterInInteriorRadius====
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This function creates water (using different data). 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments===
*'''x, y, z:''' position of the top-central point.
*'''radius:''' define the radious of water box to be created.
*'''intID:''' interior in which the water is to be created.
===Optional Arguments===
*'''effectType:''' effect type (0 - classic water, 1- watershine)

===Returns===
Returns water element if successful, ''false'' otherwise.
</section>
====destroyWaterInInterior====
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This function destroys previously created water. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool exports.interior_flood:destroyWaterInInterior( element )</syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments===
*'''element:''' Previously created waterInInterior element.

===Returns===
Returns 'true' if successful, ''false'' otherwise.
</section>
====attachMaterialToWaterInInterior====
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This function attaches water surface material to existing water in interior. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments===
*'''x, y, z:''' position of the top-central point. The 'z' position will be corrected by height of the existing water.
*'''radius:''' define the radious of the effect.
*'''intID:''' interior in which the water is to be created.
===Optional Arguments===
*'''effectType:''' effect type (0 - classic water, 1- watershine)

===Returns===
Returns water element if successful, ''false'' otherwise.
</section>
====detachMaterialFromWaterInInterior====
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This function destroys the surface material created with attachMaterialToWaterInInterior. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool exports.interior_flood:detachMaterialFromWaterInInterior( element )</syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments===
*'''element:''' Previously created waterSurface element.

===Returns===
Returns 'true' if successful, ''false'' otherwise.
</section>
==Examples== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">exports.interior_flood:createWaterInInteriorRadius(-28.628,-83.787,1003.5,15,18,1)</syntaxhighlight>
This creates visible water in interior 18.

<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">exports.interior_flood:createWaterInInterior(-290,-290,40,290,-290,40, -290, 290, 40, 290, 290, 40,0,1 )</syntaxhighlight>
This creates visible water in interior 0.

<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">local someWater = exports.interior_flood:createWaterInInterior(-290,-290,40,290,-290,40, -290, 290, 40, 290, 290, 40,0,1 )
exports.interior_flood:destroyWaterInInterior(someWater)</syntaxhighlight>
This creates and destroys visible water in interior 0.


Of course when you want to use theese functions in your resources you have to include
the interior_flood resource in meta.

==See Also==
[https://community.multitheftauto.com/index.php?p=resources&s=details&id=8234 Resource Download]