{{Resource page}}
The introduction of voice support in 1.1 comes with very basic, yet flexible scripting interface for it.

The purpose of the '''Voice''' resource is to provide a typical interface which wraps on top of MTA's own basic scripting, to provide typical features a user would expect of voice chat - including team assignment, channel assignment, and muting.

The '''Voice''' resource currently does not provide a GUI interface for muting other players clientside, though this is planned.

= Concepts =
The Voice resource provides '''channel''' functionality.  A channel is a way of controlling who you can speak to and hear from.  There are three main types of channels:
* '''Scripted channel:'''  This channel is set using the [[/Resource:Voice#getPlayerChannel.md|setPlayerChannel]] function, and is in the format of a number.  Players in channel ''1'' cannot hear players who are in channel ''2''.

* '''Team channel:''' Scripts do not have access to this type of channel, but it is quite similar to a scripted channel.  This type of channel is automatically assigned based upon the [[/Resource:Voice#Team_autoassignment.md|Team autoassignment]] setting.  When players are in a team, [[/Resource:Voice#getPlayerChannel.md|getPlayerChannel]] will return the actual [[/team.md|team]] element.  Players of one team channel cannot hear players in another team channel.  Equally, players in a team channel cannot hear players in a ''Scripted Channel''.

* '''The "root" channel:'''  Players are placed into this channel by default.  This channel is associated to the [[/getRootElement.md|root]] element concept, and [[/Resource:Voice#getPlayerChannel.md|getPlayerChannel]] will actually return the root element.  When a player is in the root channel, he is broadcasting to '''everyone''' in the server, and they will be able to hear him.  However, he will not be able to hear from people who are either in a ''Team channel'' or a ''Scripted channel''.




= Settings =
All settings can be modified using MTA's set() functions, modifying the meta.xml of the resource, or modifying the settings.xml.


===Chat Icons===
* '''Setting name:''' ''show_chat_icon''
* '''Description:''' A boolean value which allows you to disable or enable the voice chat broadcast icon that appears above a player when he speaks.
* '''XML Example:''' <syntaxhighlight lang="xml">"/></syntaxhighlight>

===Team autoassignment===
* '''Setting name:''' ''autoassign_to_teams''
* '''Description:''' A boolean value which allows you to disable or enable the voice resource automatically managing players into voice channels according to the team they're in.
* '''XML Example:''' <syntaxhighlight lang="xml">"/></syntaxhighlight>
	



	
=Clientside Scripting functions=
All these scripting functions are '''clientside''' and therefore only affect the '''local player'''.  All functions must be called using the [[/call.md|exports]]  system.

===isPlayerVoiceMuted===
This function allows you to determine if a remote player is muted to the local player.  In other words, can I hear this other player?
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool exports.voice:isPlayerVoiceMuted ( player playerToCheck )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToCheck:''' The player for which you wish to check if they are muted
Returns a bool - '''true'' if muted, '''false''' if not


===setPlayerVoiceMuted===
This function allows you to set whether a remote player is muted to the local player.  In simple terms, I can set whether I can hear this other player.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool exports.voice:setPlayerVoiceMuted ( player playerToMute, bool muted )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToMute:''' The player for which you wish to mute or unmute
* '''muted :''' A bool of whether they should be muted or unmuted.  '''true''' for muted, '''false''' for unmuted.
Returns a '''true''' if the operation was successful, '''false''' otherwise

=Serverside Scripting functions=
All these scripting functions are '''serverside''' and can affect all players in the server.  All functions must be called using the [[/call.md|exports]]  system.

===isPlayerVoiceMuted===
This function allows you to determine if a player is muted to everyone in the server.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool exports.voice:isPlayerVoiceMuted ( player playerToCheck )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToCheck:''' The player for which you wish to check if they are muted
Returns a bool - '''true'' if muted, '''false''' if not



===setPlayerVoiceMuted===
This function allows you to set whether a player is muted to everyone in the server.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool exports.voice:setPlayerVoiceMuted ( player playerToMute, bool muted )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToMute:''' The player for which you wish to mute or unmute
* '''muted :''' A bool of whether they should be muted or unmuted.  '''true''' for muted, '''false''' for unmuted.
Returns a '''true''' if the operation was successful, '''false''' otherwise



===getPlayerMutedByList===
This function allows you to retrive a list of the players who have muted a specified player
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
table exports.voice:getPlayerVoiceMutedByList( player playerToCheck )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToCheck:''' The player who you wish to retrieve the list of who  has muted this player
Returns a table of players who have muted the specified player.

===getPlayerChannel===
This function allows you to get what voice chat channel the specified player is in.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
int/element exports.voice:getPlayerChannel ( player playerToCheck )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToCheck:''' The player who you wish to retrieve the channel of
Returns an integer of the channel ID they are in, or a [[/team.md|team]] element if they have been assigned to a team channel, or the [[/getRootElement.md|root]] element if they are not in a specific channel.


===setPlayerChannel===
This function allows you to set what voice chat channel the specified player is in.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool exports.voice:setPlayerChannel ( player playerToCheck, [ int channelID ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''playerToCheck:''' The player who you wish to set the channel of
* '''channelID :''' ''Optional:'' The channel ID you wish to assign to this player.  Not passing this argument will allow the Voice resource to automatically manage this player (e.g. Team assignment).
Returns '''true''' if the operation was successful, '''false''' otherwise.


===getPlayersInChannel===
This function allows you to retrive a list of the players who are in a certain channel.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
table exports.voice:getPlayersInChannel ( int channelID )
</syntaxhighlight>
* '''channelID :''' The channelID which you want to get the list of players from.
Returns a table of players are in the specified channel.


===getNextEmptyChannel===
This function allows you to get the next channel ID which is completely empty, allowing for easy creation of new channels
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
int getNextEmptyChannel ( )
</syntaxhighlight>
Returns an integer of the first channel ID which is completely empty.

[[/ru:Resource:Voice.md|ru:Resource:Voice]]