
Capture the Flag is a team based gamemode. Players capture enemy teams flags and return them to their own to gain points. The team with the most points by the end of the round wins.

==Ingame keys==
Left/Right - used to scroll through teams while in spawnscreen. <br>
Enter - used to confirm a team selection from the spawnscreen. <br>
<br>
Note: spawnscreen might be disabled on some maps.<br>

==Usage==
Syntax:
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
<team name="" colorR="" colorG="" colorB="">
	<flag name="" posX="" posY="" posZ="" />
	<spawnpoint posX="" posY="" posZ="" rot="" model="" />
</team>
</syntaxhighlight>

When making a CTF map, one must define at least two teams.<br>
Inside each team there are a few definable things-
* Flags - used to define a flag. Name refers to the flags name, and posX/Y/Z refers to the flags position. Each team must have at least one flag.
* * Spawnpoints - this is to determinate where the players would spawn. The spawnpoint the player would spawn at is randomly picked from the list of spawnpoints in the current team. posX/Y/Z refers to the spawnpoints position, rot refers to the spawning rotation. You must specify at least one spawnpoint per team.

==Settings==
Syntax:
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"><settings respawnTime="" roundTime="" spawnScreen="" blips=""/></syntaxhighlight>

* respawnTime refers to the amount of milliseconds a player has to wait before spawning after being killed. Default is 4500.
* roundTime refers to the amount of milliseconds a round lasts. Default is 600000.
* spawnScreen - if the value is "on", spawnscreen is on. Otherwise, not spawnscreen would appear.
* blips - if the value is "all", all player blips and flag blips would be shown; if it's "team", only the players teams player blips and flag blips would be shown; otherwise, CTF won't show blips.