{{Server client function}} 
 
Sets a state of a specified player's control, as if they pressed or released it.

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setControlState ( player thePlayer, string control, bool state ) </syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' The player you wish to set the control state of.
*'''control:''' The control that you want to set the state of. See [[/control names.md|control names]] for a list of possible controls.
*'''state:''' A boolean value representing whether or not the key will be set to pressed or not.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setControlState ( string control, bool state ) </syntaxhighlight> 
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''control:''' The control that you want to set the state of. See [[/control names.md|control names]] for a list of possible controls.
*'''state:''' A boolean value representing whether or not the key will be set to pressed or not.
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the control state was successfully set, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==  
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example will disable the use of the accelerate, brake/reverse and handbrake keys, then force the accelerate on for any player who enters a vehicle. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onPlayerEnterVehicle ( theVehicle, seat, jacked )
    toggleControl ( source, "accelerate", false ) -- disable the accelerate key
    toggleControl ( source, "brake_reverse", false ) -- disable the brake_reverse key
    toggleControl ( source, "handbrake", false ) -- disable the handbrake key
    setControlState ( source, "accelerate", true ) -- force the accelerate key on
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerVehicleEnter", getRootElement(), onPlayerEnterVehicle )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This example will disable the use of the accelerate, brake/reverse and handbrake keys, then force the accelerate on for any player who enters a vehicle. 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">

function onClientPlayerEnterVehicle ( theVehicle, seat, jacked )
    toggleControl ( "accelerate", false ) -- disable the accelerate key
    toggleControl ( "brake_reverse", false ) -- disable the brake_reverse key
    toggleControl ( "handbrake", false ) -- disable the handbrake key
    setControlState ( "accelerate", true ) -- force the accelerate key on
end
addEventHandler ( "onClientPlayerVehicleEnter", getRootElement(), onClientPlayerEnterVehicle )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Input functions}}