{{Server client function}}

This function sets the alpha (transparency) value for the specified [[/element.md|element]]. This can be a [[/player.md|player]], [[/ped.md|ped]], [[/object.md|object]], [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] or [[/Element/Weapon.md|weapon]].

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setElementAlpha ( element theElement, int alpha )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/element.md|element]]:setAlpha|alpha|getElementAlpha}}

===Required Arguments===
*'''theElement:''' The [[/element.md|element]] whose alpha you want to set.
*'''alpha:'''  The alpha value to set. Values are 0-255, where 255 is fully opaque and 0 is fully transparent.
** '''Note:''' [[/Object.md|Object]]s are fully transparent at 140. 
===Returns===
Returns ''true'' or ''false'' if invalid arguments were passed.

==Example==
<section name="Clientside example" class="client" show="true">
This example makes the player invisible.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function invisible()
        setElementAlpha(localPlayer, 0)
end
addCommandHandler ( "invisible", invisible )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="Serverside example" class="server" show="true">
This example lets you toggle invisibility when you write /invis.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function toggleInvis ( thePlayer )  -- thePlayer is whoever executed the command
        if getElementAlpha( thePlayer ) == 0 then		-- if the player is NOT invisible
		setElementAlpha ( thePlayer, 0 )	-- set the players alpha to 0 (make them invisible)
	else			-- else, if the source player IS visible
		setElementAlpha ( thePlayer, 255 )	-- set the players alpha to 255 (make them 100% visible)
	end
end
addCommandHandler ( "invis", toggleInvis )	-- When /invis is typed, the function 'toggleInvis' will start.
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Element functions}}