
{{Client function}}
{{Note|Avoid calling setPedLookAt every frame as this can cause bugs like being invincible to burning.}}
{{Note|For remote players, you have to use [https://wiki.multitheftauto.com/wiki/SetPedAimTarget setPedAimTarget] before setPedLookAt.}}
Makes a ped turn his head and look at a specific world position or element.
==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setPedLookAt ( ped thePed, float x, float y, float z [, int time = 3000 [, int blend = 1000 ], element target = nil ] )
</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
*'''thePed:''' the ped to change the lookat of.
*'''x:''' the x coordinate of the world position to look at.
*'''y:''' the y coordinate of the world position to look at.
*'''z:''' the z coordinate of the world position to look at.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''time:''' the time, in milliseconds, during which the ped will look at the target. Once this time has elapsed, he will look ahead again like before the function was applied. A time of 0 will immediately stop any lookat. A negative time will make the ped look at the target indefinitely.
*'''blend:''' the time, in milliseconds, during which the look will blend.
*'''target:''' if this argument is specified, the position arguments will be ignored and the ped's gaze will follow the specified element instead. Can be a player, a vehicle, another ped etc.

==Example==
This example makes the local player look at where the camera points at. If you want to sync this effect with other players you can use [[/triggerLatentServerEvent.md|triggerLatentServerEvent]] and [[/triggerLatentClientEvent.md|triggerLatentClientEvent]] functions.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local sx, sy = guiGetScreenSize()

function updateLookAt()
    -- The world coordinates of the center of the screen always are the point where the camera really looks at, so get them.
    local tx, ty, tz = getWorldFromScreenPosition(sx / 2, sy / 2, 10)
    setPedLookAt(localPlayer, tx, ty, tz, -1, 0) -- Make the player look that coordinates
end
addEventHandler("onClientPreRender", root, updateLookAt)
</syntaxhighlight>

== Issues ==
{{Issues|
{{Issue|4325|setPedLookAt does not work for remote players}}
}}
==See Also==
{{Client ped functions}}