
{{Server client function}}
{{Deprecated}}

Please use [[/setPedWeaponSlot.md|setPedWeaponSlot]]

This function sets the player's weapon slot. This affects the current weapon.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setPlayerWeaponSlot ( player theplayer, int weapon_slot )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments===
*'''theplayer:''' the [[/player.md|player]] whose weapon slot you want to set. In a clientside script, this can only be the local player.
*'''weapon_slot:''' the weapon slot to set.
{{Weapon_Slots}}

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if successful in setting the player's equipped weapon slot, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example allows the player to type the command 'giveweapons', which gives the player a weapon for every slot. Instead of equipping the last given weapon, the script randomly decides which weapon to equip after all the weapons are given.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">function givePlayerWeapons ( player, commandName )
        --Give the player a weapon for each slot
	giveWeapon ( player, 1, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 2, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 22, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 25, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 28, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 30, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 33, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 35, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 16, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 42, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 10, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 44, 1 )
	giveWeapon ( player, 40, 1 )
        --Randomly select which weapon to equip, slots 1 through 12
	setPlayerWeaponSlot ( player, math.random ( 1, 12) )
end
addCommandHandler ( "giveweapons", givePlayerWeapons )</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Player functions}}