{{Server function}} 
 
This function changes the specified [[/player.md|player]]'s name.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setPlayerName ( player thePlayer, string newName )
</syntaxhighlight>

{{OOP||[[/player.md|player]]:setName|name|getPlayerName}}

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' the [[/player.md|player]] that will have its name set.
*'''newName:''' the new name to set for the player.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the player name was changed succesfully, ''false'' if invalid arguments are specified.

===Limits===
* Only ASCII characters between 33 and 126 are allowed (basic latin):  
    <nowiki>!"#$%&'()*+,-./0123456789:;<=>?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ[\]^_`abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz{|}~</nowiki>
* Minimal player name length is 1 character. 
* Maximum player name length is 22 characters.
* Player names are case-insensitive. It is not possible to have two clients with same name but different character case.

==Example==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example adds a tag before a player's nickname via a /changetag command
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">

-- Define the function for this command (/changetag, as defined below)
-- source = the player that triggered this command
-- command = the command passed into the function (changetag)
-- thePlayer = the player that you wish to add a tag to
-- tag = the tag to add to the players nickname
function tagPlayer ( source, command, thePlayer, tag )
	-- Attempt to grab the element id for the player from the parsed name.
	local sPlayerElement = getPlayerFromName ( thePlayer )
	-- Check to see if the player were changing the tag for exists.
	if ( sPlayerElement ) then
		-- make sure that the element type of thePlayer is acctually pointing to a player element
		if getElementType ( sPlayerElement ) == "player" then
			-- we store the player's current name,
			local oldName = getPlayerName ( sPlayerElement )
			-- append the tag passed to this function before it
			local taggedName = tag .. oldName
			-- then set it as his new name
			setPlayerName ( sPlayerElement, taggedName )
			-- Tell the player who triggerd the command that the tag has been applied
			outputChatBox ( "Player " .. thePlayer .. "'s tag changed to " .. taggedName, source )
		end
	else
		-- Tell the player who triggerd the command that the player could not be found
		outputChatBox ( "Unable to change player tag: Player " .. thePlayer .. " not found", source )
	end
end
-- Add a command handler for either the console or / chat commands
-- Example: /changetag <playername> <tag>
addCommandHandler ( "changetag", tagPlayer )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Player functions}}
[[/ru:setPlayerName.md|ru:setPlayerName]]