
{{Server client function}}
This function allows changing the type of a pickup to a Weapon, Armour or Health pickup, and allows you to set the health points '''or''' the weapon and ammo that the pickup will give.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setPickupType ( pickup thePickup, int theType, int amount/weapon/model, [ int ammo ] )          
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePickup:''' The pickup which you wish to change the settings of
* '''theType''': An integer representing the type of pickup. You can choose from:
** '''0''': Health Pickup
** '''1''': Armour Pickup
** '''2''': Weapon Pickup
** '''3''': Custom Pickup
* '''amount''': This is an integer representing the amount of Health points or Armour points a pickup has.
'''OR'''
* '''weapon''': If the type is a Weapon pickup, then it represents the [[/Weapon.md|weapon ID]] of the weapon pickup the 'ammo' field must be entered if the type is Weapon Pickup.
'''OR'''
* '''model''': If the pickup is a custom model, this is the model id to use. Many non-pickup models can be used, though some may cause crashes. The following is a list of models designed to be used as pickups.
** '''370:''' Jetpack
** '''1240:''' Health (heart)
** '''1242:''' Armour
** '''1272:''' House (blue)
** '''1273:''' House (green)
** '''1274:''' Money (dollar symbol)
** '''1277:''' Save (floppy disk)

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''ammo''': An integer representing the amount of ammo a pickup contains. This argument is only valid when the pickup type is a Weapon Pickup, and must be specified in that case.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if successful, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
This example changes the pickup time every time someone hits it

<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function onPickupHit ( )                          -- when a pickup is hit
    local currenttype = getPickupType ( source )  -- get the current type of the pickup and store it in 'currenttype'
    if currenttype == 0 then                      -- if it is currently a health pickup
        setPickupType ( source, 1, 100 )          -- change it to an armour pickup with 100 hp
    elseif currenttype == 1 then                  -- else, if it is currently an armour pickup
        setPickupType ( source, 2, 29, 100 )      -- change it to an mp5 weapon pickup with 100 ammo
    elseif currenttype == 2 then                  -- lastly, if it is already a weapon
        setPickupType ( source, 0, 100 )           -- change it to a health pickup
    end
end
addEventHandler ( "onPickupHit", getRootElement ( ), onPickupHit ) -- add an event handler for onPickupHit
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

This example changes a local player's pickup every time the spacebar key is pressed down
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">function changeMyPickupType ( key, keyState )
    local currenttype = getPickupType ( myPickup )  -- get the current type of the pickup and store it in 'currenttype'
    if currenttype == 0 then                      -- if it is currently a health pickup
        setPickupType ( myPickup, 1, 100 )          -- change it to an armour pickup with 100 hp
    elseif currenttype == 1 then                  -- else, if it is currently an armour pickup
        setPickupType ( myPickup, 2, 29, 100 )      -- change it to an mp5 weapon pickup with 100 ammo
    elseif currenttype == 2 then                  -- lastly, if it is already a weapon
        setPickupType ( myPickup, 0, 100 )          -- change it to a health pickup
    end
end

function clientsideResourceStart ()
	myPickup = createPickup ( 10.0, 10.0, 3.11, 0, 100 ) -- create myPickup at resource start
	bindKey ( "space", "down", changeMyPickupType ) --bind spacebar to changeMyPickupType function
end
addEventHandler ( "onClientResourceStart", resourceRoot, clientsideResourceStart )</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Pickup functions}}