
{{Server client function}}
Sets a player's money to a certain value, regardless of current player money. It should be noted that setting negative values does not work and in fact gives the player large amounts of money.
{{Note|Using this function client side (not recommended) will not change a players money server side.}}

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setPlayerMoney ( player thePlayer, int amount [, bool instant = false ] ) </syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/player.md|player]]:setMoney|money|getPlayerMoney}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' Which player to set the money of.
*'''amount:''' A whole integer specifying the new amount of money the player will have.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
{{New items|3.0140|1.4|
*'''instant:''' If set to ''true'' money will be set instantly without counting up/down like in singleplayer.}}
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool setPlayerMoney ( int amount [, bool instant = false ] ) </syntaxhighlight> 
{{OOP||[[/Player.md|Player]].setMoney||getPlayerMoney}}
===Required Arguments=== 
*'''amount:''' A whole integer specifying the new amount of money the local player will have.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
{{New items|3.0140|1.4|
*'''instant:''' If set to ''true'' money will be set instantly without counting up/down like in singleplayer.}}
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the money was added, or ''false'' if invalid parameters were passed.

==Example==  
'''Example 1:''' This example sets the player's money to the desired amount when he types "setcash" in console.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function setCash(thePlayer, command, amount)       -- when the setcash function is called
    setPlayerMoney(thePlayer, tonumber(amount))    -- change player's money to the desired amount
end
addCommandHandler("setcash", setCash)           -- add a command handler for setcash
</syntaxhighlight>
'''Example 2:''' This sets all players the amount of 1337 money when "leet" is typed in console.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function leetmoney()
	setPlayerMoney(root, 1337)
end
addCommandHandler("leet", leetmoney)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Player functions}}

[[/ru:setPlayerMoney.md|ru:setPlayerMoney]]