{{Useful Function}}

This clientside function sets a vehicle's gravity in the direction of a 3 dimensional coordinate with the strength specified.

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setVehicleGravityPoint( vehicle targetVehicle, float pointX, float pointY, float pointZ, float strength )</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
* '''targetVehicle''': The vehicle you want to set the gravity of.
* '''pointX''': The X position of the gravity point. 
* '''pointY''': The Y position of the gravity point. 
* '''pointZ''': The Z position of the gravity point. 
* '''strength''': The strength of the gravity as a multiple of the global gravity.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the function was successful, ''false'' otherwise.

==Code==
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function setVehicleGravityPoint( targetVehicle, pointX, pointY, pointZ, strength )
	if isElement( targetVehicle ) and getElementType( targetVehicle ) == "vehicle" then
		local vehicleX,vehicleY,vehicleZ = getElementPosition( targetVehicle )
		local vectorX = vehicleX-pointX
		local vectorY = vehicleY-pointY
		local vectorZ = vehicleZ-pointZ
		local length = ( vectorX^2 + vectorY^2 + vectorZ^2 )^0.5
		
		local propX = vectorX^2 / length^2
		local propY = vectorY^2 / length^2
		local propZ = vectorZ^2 / length^2
		
		local finalX = ( strength^2 * propX )^0.5
		local finalY = ( strength^2 * propY )^0.5
		local finalZ = ( strength^2 * propZ )^0.5
		
		if vectorX > 0 then finalX = finalX * -1 end
		if vectorY > 0 then finalY = finalY * -1 end
		if vectorZ > 0 then finalZ = finalZ * -1 end
		
		return setVehicleGravity( targetVehicle, finalX, finalY, finalZ )
	end
	return false
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Example==
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This example makes a command that will make the player's current vehicle "fall" towards 0,0,50 with 5 times the global gravity.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function toFarm()
		setVehicleGravityPoint(getPedOccupiedVehicle(getLocalPlayer()), 0, 0, 50, 5) -- Make the vehicle "fall"
end
addCommandHandler("tofarm", toFarm, false) -- Create the tofarm command
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

Author: Cecer1

==See Also==
{{Useful_Functions}}