 
{{Server client function}} 
<section name="setWeaponAmmo" class="server" show="true">
Sets the ammo to a certain amount for a specified weapon (if they already have it), regardless of current ammo.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> )</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' A [[/player.md|player]] object referencing the specified player  
*'''weapon:''' A whole number integer that refers to a [[/weapon.md|weapon]] ID.
*'''totalAmmo:''' A whole number integer serving as the total ammo amount for the given weapon (including ammo in clip).

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''ammoInClip:''' The amount of ammo to set in the player's clip.  This will be taken from the main ammo.  If left unspecified or set to 0, the current clip will remain.

==Returns==
Returns a boolean value ''true'' or ''false'' that tells you if it was successful or not.

==Example==  
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local randPlayer = getRandomPlayer() -- Get a random player
giveWeapon(randPlayer,35,100) -- Give them a rocket launcher with 100 rockets.
setWeaponAmmo(randPlayer,35,50) -- Decide we're only going to give them 50 rockets.
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="setWeaponAmmo (custom weapons)" class="client" show="true">
Set the ammo of a custom weapon which was created through [[/createWeapon.md|createWeapon]]. By default, a custom weapon has 9999 ammo (which means infinite ammo).

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setWeaponAmmo ( weapon theWeapon, int ammo )</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/Element/Weapon.md|weapon]]:setAmmo|ammo|getWeaponAmmo}}

===Required arguments=== 
* '''theWeapon:''' The weapon to set the ammo of.
* '''ammo:''' The total ammo amount for the given weapon (including ammo in clip).

==Returns==
Returns ''true'' on success, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==  
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local weapon = createWeapon ("deagle",0, 0, 10) -- Create the weapon
setWeaponAmmo(weapon,5000) 
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.3.0-9.04555|}}
</section>

==See also==
{{Weapon functions}}
{{Client weapon creation functions}}
[[/ru:setWeaponAmmo.md|ru:setWeaponAmmo]]