{{Server client function}}

<section name="setWeaponProperty" class="server" show="true">
This function sets the weapon property of the specified weapons specified weapon type. See lower down the page for documentation related to weapon creation.

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setWeaponProperty ( int weaponID/string weaponName, string weaponSkill, string property, int/float theValue )</syntaxhighlight>

==Required Arguments==
*'''weaponID:''' The ID or name of the [[/Weapons.md|weapon]] you want to set a property of. Names can be:
{{Some Weapon Types}}
*'''weaponSkill:''' Either: "pro", "std" or "poor". The player must have this skill level set to have the effect.
*'''property:''' The property you want to set the value of:
{{Weapon Properties Writable}}
*'''theValue:''' The value to set the property to.

==Returns==
On success:

'''bool:''' Returns true if the weapon property was successfully set

On failure:

'''bool:''' Returns false if the weapon property was unable to be set

==Example==
This example sets the weapon range of the M4 at poor skill level to 75
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local rangeSet = setWeaponProperty(31, "poor", "weapon_range", 75)
if (rangeSet) then
    outputChatBox("M4 range at poor skill is set now 75!")
end
</syntaxhighlight>

This example makes the silenced pistol dual wielded at pro skill level
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
setWeaponProperty(23, "pro", "flags", 0x000800) -- Warning - Depends on the current flag setting
setWeaponProperty(23, "pro", "flags", 0x000002) -- Warning - Depends on the current flag setting
setWeaponProperty(23, "pro", "maximum_clip_ammo", 34)
</syntaxhighlight>

This examples doubles the range of the colt 45 hand gun
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
setWeaponProperty(22, "poor", "weapon_range", 70)
setWeaponProperty(22, "std", "weapon_range", 70)
setWeaponProperty(22, "pro", "weapon_range", 70)
</syntaxhighlight>

This example makes the minigun able to fire all its ammo without the short reload time
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
setWeaponProperty("minigun", "pro", "maximum_clip_ammo", 1000)
</syntaxhighlight>

This example turns off auto aim for all weapons
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function setAutoAimForAllWeapons( bEnable )
    weaponList = { "colt 45", "silenced", "deagle", "shotgun", "sawed-off", "combat shotgun", "uzi", "mp5", "ak-47", "m4", "tec-9", "rifle", "sniper", "minigun" }
    for _,weapon in ipairs( weaponList ) do
        for _,skill in ipairs( { "poor", "std", "pro" } ) do
            setWeaponPropertyFlag( weapon, skill, 0x0001, not bEnable )
        end
    end
end

-- Set or clear an individual weapon flag bit
function setWeaponPropertyFlag( weapon, skill, flagBit, bSet )
    local bIsSet = bitAnd( getWeaponProperty(weapon, skill, "flags"), flagBit ) ~= 0
    if bIsSet ~= bSet then
        setWeaponProperty(weapon, skill, "flags", flagBit)
    end
end

-- Turn off auto aim
setAutoAimForAllWeapons( false )
</syntaxhighlight>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|1.3|n/a|}}
</section>

<section name="setWeaponProperty" class="client" show="true">
==Syntax (custom weapons)==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setWeaponProperty ( weapon theWeapon, string strProperty, value theValue )</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/Element/Weapon.md|weapon]]:setProperty||getWeaponProperty}}

==Required Arguments==

* '''theWeapon:''' the weapon to change the property of.
* '''strProperty:''' the property to edit:
{{Custom Weapon Properties Writable}}
* '''theValue:''' The value to set the property to.

==Returns==
Returns ''true'' if the property was set.

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.3.0-9.04555|}}

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.4.0-9.06339|Added 'fire_rotation' property}}

</section>

==See also==
{{Weapon functions}}