
{{Client function}}
This function sets a [[/Element/Weapon.md|custom weapon]] flags, used to change how it behaves or finds a possible target to shoot.
{{Note|Do not confuse this function with [[/setWeaponProperty.md|setWeaponProperty]]. Although [[/setWeaponProperty.md|setWeaponProperty]] works with player-held weapons and custom weapons (in a limited extent), this function does not work with player-held weapons.}}

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool setWeaponFlags ( weapon theWeapon, string theFlag, bool enable )</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/Element/Weapon.md|weapon]]:setFlags||getWeaponFlags}}

===Required Arguments===
* '''theWeapon:''' the [[/Element/Weapon.md|weapon element]] to set the flag of.
* '''theFlag:''' the weapon flag to change (all of them can be ''true'' or ''false''):
** '''disable_model''': makes the weapon and muzzle effect invisible or not.
** '''flags''': configures the flags used to get where the gun shoots at. They are based on [[/processLineOfSight.md|processLineOfSight]]'s. You have to specify all the eight flags for the function to succeed. These flags are (by order):
*** '''checkBuildings''': allows the shoot to be blocked by GTA's internally placed buildings, i.e. the world map.
*** '''checkCarTires''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/vehicle.md|vehicle]] tires.
*** '''checkDummies''': allows the shoot to be blocked by GTA's internal dummies. These are not used in the current MTA version so this argument can be set to ''false''.
*** '''checkObjects''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/object.md|objects]]. 
*** '''checkPeds''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/ped.md|peds]] and [[/player.md|players]]. 
*** '''checkVehicles''': allows the shoot to be blocked by [[/vehicle.md|vehicles]]. 
*** '''checkSeeThroughStuff''': allows the shoot to be blocked by translucent game objects, e.g. glass. 
*** '''checkShootThroughStuff''': allows the shoot to be blocked by things that can be shot through.
** '''instant_reload''': if enabled, the weapon will reload instantly rather than waiting the reload time until shooting again.
** '''shoot_if_out_of_range''': if enabled, the weapon will still fire its target beyond the weapon range distance.
** '''shoot_if_blocked''': if enabled, the weapon will still fire its target even if it's blocked by something.
* '''enable''': whether to enable or disable the specified flag.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if all arguments are valid and the flags where changed; ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==
This example creates a minigun that will kill any player who approaches the center of the map, no matter if he takes cover or not.
<code>local function setupDeadlyWeapon()
    local weapon = createWeapon("minigun", 0, 0, 10) -- Create the minigun
    setWeaponTarget(weapon, localPlayer) -- Set the weapon target to the local player
    setWeaponFlags(weapon, "flags", false, false, false, false, false, false, false, false) -- Allow the weapon to shoot through everything
end
addEventHandler("onClientResourceStart", resourceRoot, setupDeadlyWeapon)</syntaxhighlight>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.3.0-9.04555|}}

==Issues==
{{Deprecated items|3.0141|1.4.1|{{Issues|{{Issue|8686|setWeaponFlags(weapon, "flags") always returns false, but getWeaponFlags(weapon, "flags") works correctly}}}}}}

==See also==
{{Client weapon creation functions}}