
{{Server client function}}
This function is used to show or hide a [[/player.md|player]]'s cursor.
{{Note|Regardless of the cursor state you set using this function, the cursor will always be visible while the menu, the chatbox input line or the console are active, or if another resource has called this function.}}
==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool showCursor ( player thePlayer, bool show, [ bool toggleControls = true ] )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' The [[/player.md|player]] you want to show or hide the cursor of.
*'''show:''' A boolean value determining whether to show (''true'') or hide (''false'') the cursor.

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''toggleControls:''' A boolean value determining whether to disable controls whilst the cursor is showing.  ''true'' implies controls are disabled, ''false'' implies controls remain enabled.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool showCursor ( bool show, [ bool toggleControls = true ]  )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''show:''' A boolean value determining whether to show (''true'') or hide (''false'') the cursor.

===Optional Arguments=== 
{{OptionalArg}} 
*'''toggleControls:''' A boolean value determining whether to disable controls whilst the cursor is showing.  ''true'' implies controls are disabled, ''false'' implies controls remain enabled.
</section>

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the player's cursor was shown or hidden successfully, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example shows the cursor for a player named "Dave", then outputs a message if it was shown successfully.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
local thePlayer = getPlayerFromName ( "Dave" )              -- get the player named Dave
if thePlayer then                                           -- if we got him
    showCursor ( thePlayer, true )                          -- make his cursor show
    if isCursorShowing ( thePlayer ) then                   -- did it show?
        outputChatBox ( "Cursor is now showing for Dave." ) -- print a message to the chat box
    end
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
This example shows the cursor all the time
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
showCursor ( true ) -- Shows cursor
showCursor ( false ) -- Doesnt Show Cursor
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>


==See Also==
{{Cursor_functions}}