
{{Server function}}
This function spawns the player at an arbitary point on the map.<br>
{{Note|[[/setCameraTarget.md|setCameraTarget]] must be used to focus on the player. Also, all players have their camera initially faded out after connect. To ensure that the camera is faded in, please do a [[/fadeCamera.md|fadeCamera]] after.}}

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool spawnPlayer ( player thePlayer, float x, float y, float z, [ int rotation = 0, int skinID = 0, int interior = 0, int dimension = 0, team theTeam = getPlayerTeam(thePlayer) ] )
</syntaxhighlight>
{{OOP||[[/player.md|player]]:spawn||}}
===Required Arguments===
*'''thePlayer:''' The player you want to spawn.
*'''x:''' The x co-ordinate to spawn the player at.
*'''y:''' The y co-ordinate to spawn the player at.
*'''z:''' The z co-ordinate to spawn the player at.

===Optional Arguments===
*'''rotation:''' rotation of the player on spawn.
*'''skinID:''' player's skin on spawn. [[/Character Skins.md|Character Skins]]
*'''interior:''' interior the player will spawn into. [[/Interior IDs.md|Interior IDs]]
*'''dimension:''' The ID of the [[/dimension.md|dimension]] that the player should be in.
*'''theTeam:''' the team the player will join.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the player was spawned successfully, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example== 
This example spawns all the players in the middle of the game map.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- Get a table of all the players
players = getElementsByType ( "player" )
-- Go through every player
for playerKey, playerValue in ipairs(players) do
	-- Spawn them at the desired coordinates
	spawnPlayer ( playerValue, 0.0, 0.0, 5.0, 90.0, 0 )
end
</syntaxhighlight>

This example spawns a player when he logs in.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
spawnTeam = createTeam ("Teamname", 255, 0, 0) -- Create team to spawn.
function spawnOnLogin (prevA, curA, autoLogin)
	outputChatBox ("Welcome to ...", source, 255, 0, 0, false)
	spawnPlayer (source, 0, 0, 5, 0, math.random (0,288), 0, 0, spawnTeam) -- spawns player with random skin
	fadeCamera (source, true)
	setCameraTarget (source, source)
end
addEventHandler("onPlayerLogin", getRootElement(), spawnOnLogin)
</syntaxhighlight>

==See Also==
{{Player_functions}}
[[/ru:spawnPlayer.md|ru:spawnPlayer]]