{{Useful Function}}
<lowercasetitle></lowercasetitle>

This function splits a string at a given separator (pattern) and stores the pieces in a table. It's the complement of [http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/manual.html#pdf-table.concat table.concat].

There is already an MTA function called [[/split.md|split]] that splits a string at a given separator. But this function only supports single character separators and no regular expressions. For splitting at a single character you should prefer that function since it's probably faster than string.explode.

==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">table string.explode( string ensemble, string separator )</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
* '''ensemble''': The string to split.
* '''separator''': The regular expression pattern, which the ensemble should be split at.

===Returns===
Returns a table containing the pieces of the split ensemble.

==Code==
{{RequiredFunctions|Check}}
<section name="Server- and/or clientside Script" class="both" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function string.explode(self, separator)
    Check("string.explode", "string", self, "ensemble", "string", separator, "separator")

    if (#self == 0) then return {} end
    if (#separator == 0) then return { self } end

    return loadstring("return {\""..self:gsub(separator, "\",\"").."\"}")()
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Example==
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This example sends a welcome message to a player e.g. when joining a roleplay server.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
-- get the root element
local _root = getRootElement()
-- define the onPlayerJoin handler function
function OnPlayerJoin()
    -- get the player's name
    local playername = getPlayerNametagText(source)
    -- split the player's name to first and last name
    playername = playername:explode("%.") -- since . is a wildcard we have to escape it with a %
    -- send a welcome message
    outputChatBox("Welcome on our roleplay server, Mr./Mrs./Ms. "..playername[2]..".", source)
end
-- add the event handler
addEventHandler("onPlayerJoin", _root, OnPlayerJoin)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

Author: NeonBlack

==See Also==
{{Useful_Functions}}