{{Useful Function}}
<lowercasetitle></lowercasetitle>

This function check if both tables is equal.
==Syntax==
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">boolean table.compare( table a, table a2 )</syntaxhighlight>

===Required Arguments===
* '''a''': The table to check.
* '''a2''': The table to check.

===Note===
This function equal only number and string values of tables. All other types ignored! <br>
See examples.

===Returns===
Returns true if tables is equal.

<section name="Code" class="both" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function table.compare( a1, a2 )
	if 
		type( a1 ) == 'table' and
		type( a2 ) == 'table'
	then
	
		local function size( t )
			if type( t ) ~= 'table' then
				return false 
			end
			local n = 0
			for _ in pairs( t ) do
				n = n + 1
			end
			return n
		end

		if size( a1 ) == 0 and size( a2 ) == 0 then
			return true
		elseif size( a1 ) ~= size( a2 ) then
			return false
		end
		
		for _, v in pairs( a1 ) do
			local v2 = a2[ _ ]
			if type( v ) == type( v2 ) then
				if type( v ) == 'table' and type( v2 ) == 'table' then
					if size( v ) ~= size( v2 ) then
						return false
					end
					if size( v ) > 0 and size( v2 ) > 0 then
						if not table.compare( v, v2 ) then 
							return false 
						end
					end	
				elseif 
					type( v ) == 'string' or type( v ) == 'number' and
					type( v2 ) == 'string' or type( v2 ) == 'number'
				then
					if v ~= v2 then
						return false
					end
				else
					return false
				end
			else
				return false
			end
		end
		return true
	end
	return false
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

<section name="Example" class="both" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
--[[
 Well all noobs can say about this function is suck because i can compare both tables like this:
 a = { 1 }
 a2 = { 1 }
 print( a == a2 ) --> FALSE
 
 It's LIE!

 Here is compare userdata of both tables.
]]


local a1 = { 1, 2, 3 }
local a2 = { 1, 2, 3 }

print( table.compare( a1, a2 ) ) --> TRUE condition working. Because tables are same.

local a3 = { 1, { 2, 4 }, 5 }
local a4 = { 1, { 2, 4 }, 5 }

print( table.compare( a3, a4 ) ) --> TRUE condition working. Because tables are same.

local a5 = { { 1, 2, 3 }, 5 }
local a6 = { 1, 5 }

print( table.compare( a5, a6 ) ) --> FALSE condition doesn't working. Because tables are not same.


local a7 = { 'a', 'b' }
local a8 = { 'a', 'b' }

print( table.compare( a7, a8 ) ) --> TRUE condition working. Because tables are same.

local a9 = { 1, {}, 5 }
local a10 = { 1, {}, 5 }

print( table.compare( a9, a10 ) ) --> TRUE condition working. Because tables are same.
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

Author: Kenix

==See Also==
{{Useful_Functions}}