====Pixels====
-----------------
'''*''' MTA refers to the raw information that a [[/texture.md|texture]] contains as 'pixels'.

'''*''' Pixels can be retrieved from any [[/texture.md|texture]] type including [[/dxCreateRenderTarget.md|render targets]] and [[/dxCreateScreenSource.md|screen sources]] by using the function [[/dxGetTexturePixels.md|dxGetTexturePixels]].

'''*''' Pixels are just a string to Lua, so they can be saved to a file or even sent over the 'internet'.

====Pixels properties====
-----------------
Pixels have two properties:
*'''dimensions''' (width and height) which is retrieved by using the function [[/dxGetPixelsSize.md|dxGetPixelsSize]]
*'''format''' (plain,jpeg,png) which is retrieved by using the function [[/dxGetPixelsFormat.md|dxGetPixelsFormat]]
**''plain'' - Fastest and simplest - It's the format of the pixels returned by [[/dxGetTexturePixels.md|dxGetTexturePixels]] and the only one that can be used with [[/dxSetTexturePixels.md|dxSetTexturePixels]], [[/dxGetPixelColor.md|dxGetPixelColor]] and [[/dxSetPixelColor.md|dxSetPixelColor]]. But it also uses a lot of bytes, so internet transfers will be longer. Also can't be read by Photoshop or browsers etc.
**''png'' - A few less bytes, still quite big for net transfers. Can be saved to a file and read by Photoshop and browsers etc.
**''jpeg'' - A lot less bytes, so best for net transfers. Can be saved to a file and read by Photoshop and browsers etc.
   
To convert between the 3 different formats, use the function [[/dxConvertPixels.md|dxConvertPixels]] 

====Pixels more====
-----------
Pixels can also be loaded from any png/jpeg file just like this:
    fh = fileOpen( "hello.jpg" )
    pixels = fileRead(fh,fileGetSize ( fh ))
    fileClose(fh)

Pixels can be used to create textures just like this:
    myNewTexture = dxCreateTexture(pixels)

Pixels can be used to save textures just like this:
    pixels = dxGetTexturePixels(myRenderTarget)
    pixels = dxConvertPixels(pixels, 'jpeg')
    fh = fileCreate( "piccy.jpg" )
    fileWrite(fh, pixels)
    fileClose(fh)

====Pixels performance====
------------------
Getting/setting pixels from textures is not quick and not something you want to be doing every frame (in onClientRender for example).
Setting pixels to a render target is especially slow. Pixels are ideal however for transferring composite images built on a render target into a normal texture for later use. For example, making a custom radar map.