
{{Server client function}}
Enables or disables the use of all GTA controls for a specified player.

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> ) </syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' The player you wish to toggle the control ability of.
*'''enabled:''' A boolean value representing whether or not the controls will be usable.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
*'''gtaControls:''' A boolean deciding whether the ''enabled'' parameter will affect GTA's internal controls.
*'''mtaControls:''' A boolean deciding whether the ''enabled'' parameter will affect MTA's own controls., e.g. chatbox.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua"> ) </syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments===
*'''enabled:''' A boolean value representing whether or not the controls will be usable.

===Optional Arguments===
{{OptionalArg}}
*'''gtaControls:''' A boolean deciding whether the ''enabled'' parameter will affect GTA's internal controls.
*'''mtaControls:''' A boolean deciding whether the ''enabled'' parameter will affect MTA's own controls., e.g. chatbox.
</section>

===Returns===
This function returns ''true'' if controls were toggled successfully, false otherwise.

==Example==  
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
This function will disable the use of all controls in order to freeze a player, which will be used every time someone enters a vehicle.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function freezeThisDude ( thePlayer, freezeTime )
    toggleAllControls ( thePlayer, false )                         -- disable this player's controls
    setTimer ( toggleAllControls, freezeTime, 1, thePlayer, true ) -- enable this player's controls after the specified time
end

function freezeOnEnterVehicle ( theVehicle, seat, jacked )
    freezeThisDude ( source, 5000 ) -- 'freeze' him for 5000ms = 5 seconds
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerVehicleEnter", getRootElement(), freezeOnEnterVehicle )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Input functions}}