
{{Server client function}}
{{Needs Checking|By enabling a control all bindings belonging to it seem to be deleted. (tested clientside) --[[/User:NeonBlack.md|NeonBlack]] 16:48, 28 August 2009 (UTC)}}
Enables or disables the use of a GTA control for a specific player.

==Syntax== 
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool toggleControl ( player thePlayer, string control, bool enabled ) </syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''thePlayer:''' The player you wish to toggle the control ability of.
*'''control:''' The control that you want to toggle the ability of. See [[/control names.md|control names]] for a list of possible controls.
*'''enabled:''' A boolean value representing whether or not the key will be usable or not.
</section>
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">bool toggleControl ( string control, bool enabled ) </syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''control:''' The control that you want to toggle the ability of. See [[/control names.md|control names]] for a list of possible controls.
*'''enabled:''' A boolean value representing whether or not the key will be usable or not.
</section>

==Returns==
This function ''true'' if the control was set successfully, ''false'' otherwise.

==Example==  
<section name="Example 1" class="server" show="true">
This function will disable the use of the vehicle secondary-fire key for anyone in a Hydra, consequently removing the ability to fire rockets.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function disableFireForHydra ( theVehicle, seat, jacked )
    if ( getElementModel ( theVehicle ) == 520 ) then -- if they entered a hydra
        toggleControl ( source, "vehicle_secondary_fire", false ) -- disable their fire key
    else -- if they entered another vehicle
        toggleControl ( source, "vehicle_secondary_fire", true ) -- enable their fire key
    end
end
addEventHandler ( "onPlayerVehicleEnter", getRootElement(), disableFireForHydra )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Example 2" class="client" show="true">
This function will disable the use of the vehicle secondary-fire key for anyone in a Hydra, consequently removing the ability to fire rockets.
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
function disableFireForHydra ( theVehicle, seat )
    if ( getElementModel ( theVehicle ) == 520 ) then -- if they entered a hydra
        toggleControl ( "vehicle_secondary_fire", false ) -- disable their fire key
    else -- if they entered another vehicle
        toggleControl ( "vehicle_secondary_fire", true ) -- enable their fire key
    end
end
addEventHandler ( "onClientPlayerVehicleEnter", getLocalPlayer(), disableFireForHydra )
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==See Also==
{{Input functions}}