
{{Server function}}
This function is the same as [[/triggerClientEvent .md|triggerClientEvent ]] except the transmission rate of the data contained in the arguments can be limited
and other network traffic is not blocked while the data is being transferred.
{{Note|You should avoid triggering events on the [[/root element.md|root element]] unless you really need to. Doing this triggers the event on every element in the [[/element_tree.md|element tree]], which is potentially very CPU intensive. Use as specific (i.e. low down the tree) element as you can.}}

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool triggerLatentClientEvent ( [table/element sendTo=getRootElement(),] string name, [int bandwidth=50000,] [bool persist=false,] element theElement, [arguments...] )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''name:''' The name of the event to trigger client side. You should register this event with [[/addEvent.md|addEvent]] and add at least one event handler using [[/addEventHandler.md|addEventHandler]].
*'''theElement:''' The element that is the [[/Event_system#Event_handlers.md|source]] of the event. This could be another player, or if this isn't relevant, use the root element.

===Optional Arguments=== 
*'''sendTo:''' The event will be sent to all [[/player.md|player]]s that are children of the specified element. By default this is the root element, and hence the event is sent to all players. If you specify a single player it will just be sent to that player. This argument can also be a table of player elements.
*'''bandwidth:''' The bytes per second rate to send the data contained in the arguments.
*'''persist:''' A bool indicating whether the transmission should be allowed to continue even after the resource that triggered it has since stopped.
*'''arguments...:''' A list of arguments to trigger with the event. You can pass any lua data type (except functions). You can also pass [[/element.md|element]]s. The total amount of data should not exceed 100MB.

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the event trigger has been sent, ''false'' if invalid arguments were specified.

==Example== 
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEvent("onClientReadFile",true)
addEventHandler("onClientReadFile",root,function(data)
	local file = fileCreate("text.txt")					--Save "data" into "text.txt"
	fileWrite(file,data)
	fileClose(file)
end)
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
if fileExists("text.txt")
	file = fileOpen("test.txt")						--Open a file (you can create it yourself).
	local data = fileRead(file,100*1024*1024)				--Max 100 MB
	fileClose(file)								--Close File
	triggerLatentClientEvent("onClientReadFile",5000,false,root,data)	--trigger
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|1.3.0-9.03772|n/a|}}

==Changelog==
{{ChangelogHeader}}
{{ChangelogItem|1.3.0-9.04570|Added option to use a list of player elements for the 'sendTo' argument}}

==See Also==
{{Event functions}}