
{{Client function}}
This function is the same as [[/triggerServerEvent.md|triggerServerEvent]] except the transmission rate of the data contained in the arguments can be limited and other network traffic is not blocked while the data is being transferred.

==Syntax== 
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
bool triggerLatentServerEvent ( string event, [int bandwidth=5000, bool persist=false,] element theElement, [arguments...] )
</syntaxhighlight> 

===Required Arguments=== 
*'''event:''' The name of the event to trigger server-side. You should register this event with [[/addEvent.md|addEvent]] and add at least one event handler using [[/addEventHandler.md|addEventHandler]].
*'''theElement:''' The element that is the [[/Event_system#Event_handlers.md|source]] of the event. This could be another player, or if this isn't relevant, use the root element.

===Optional Arguments=== 
*'''bandwidth:''' The bytes per second rate to send the data contained in the arguments.
*'''persist:''' A bool indicating whether the transmission should be allowed to continue even after the resource that triggered it has since stopped.
*'''arguments...:''' A list of arguments to trigger with the event. You can pass any lua data type (except functions). You can also pass [[/element.md|element]]s. The total amount of data should not exceed 100MB. 

===Returns===
Returns ''true'' if the event trigger has been sent, ''false'' if invalid arguments were specified.

==Example== 
<section name="Client" class="client" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
if fileExists("text.txt")
	file = fileOpen("test.txt")						--Open a file (you can create it yourself).
	local data = fileRead(file,100*1024*1024)				--Max 100 MB
	fileClose(file)								--Close File
	triggerLatentServerEvent("onReadFile",5000,false,root,data)	--trigger
end
</syntaxhighlight>
</section>
<section name="Server" class="server" show="true">
<syntaxhighlight lang="lua">
addEvent("onReadFile",true)
addEventHandler("onReadFile",root,function(data)
	local file = fileCreate("text.txt")					--Save "data" into "text.txt"
	fileWrite(file,data)
	fileClose(file)
end)

</syntaxhighlight>
</section>

==Requirements==
{{Requirements|n/a|1.3.0-9.03772|}}

==See Also==
{{Client_event_functions}}