<pageclass class="#AA7592" subcaption="MTA-MySQL Module"></pageclass>
{{Warning|This module is too old, please use [[/dbConnect.md|dbConnect]] instead.}}
{{Module_Info|
  name           = MTA MySQL |
  version        = 0.5 |
  author         = [[/User:ryden.md|Alberto Alonso (ryden)]] |
  author2         = [[/User:ryden.md|Alberto Alonso (ryden)]] |
  module_website = [http://code.google.com/p/multitheftauto-modules Here] |
  download_link  = [https://nightly.mtasa.com/files/modules/32/mta_mysql.dll Windows 32 bit]<br/>[https://nightly.mtasa.com/files/modules/64/mta_mysql.dll Windows  64 bit]
[https://nightly.mtasa.com/files/modules/32/mta_mysql.so Linux 32 bit]<br/>[https://nightly.mtasa.com/files/modules/64/mta_mysql.so Linux 64 bit] |
  license        = [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php BSD] |
  written_in     = C++ |
  operating_system = Cross-platform |
  compatible_with = DP2.x & 1.X |
}}
MTA MySQL is an alternative to the default [[/Modules/MySQL.md|ml_mysql]] module provided by the MTA team.
It is available for Windows and GNU/Linux and provides the source code.

''Note: From version 0.4 it supports both DP2.3 and 1.0 servers.''

==Installation==
===Windows===
Uncompress the file mta_mysql.dll into your ''C:\Program files\MTA San Andreas\server\mods\deathmatch\modules\'' directory and the file libmysql.dll into your ''C:\Program files\MTA San Andreas\server\'' directory.

Then, add the following line in mtaserver.conf:
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
  <module src="mta_mysql.dll" />
</syntaxhighlight>

===GNU/Linux===
32 bit copy mta_mysql.so into the ''mods/deathmatch/modules/'' directory.<br/>

64 bit copy mta_mysql.so into the ''x64/modules/'' directory.

Then, add the following line in mtaserver.conf:
<syntaxhighlight lang="xml">
  <module src="mta_mysql.so" />
</syntaxhighlight>


To fix '''MODULE: Unable to find modules/mta_mysql.so (libmysqlclient.so.15: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory)!''' you have to install libmysqlclient15.
You can get it here: http://automation.binarysage.net/?p=1311

'''If you experience an error on Unix systems:'''
Try to add port and socket parameters to your mysql_connect.

==Handler functions==
{{Modules/MTA-MySQL/Handler_functions}}

==Result managing functions==
{{Modules/MTA-MySQL/Result_functions}}

==Version 0.5 calling method==
From version 0.5 onwards you can call all this module functions, except mysql_connect and mysql_null, as if they are methods of an object.

For example, having a valid MySQL handler, you can do handler:query ( "SELECT * FROM table" ) instead of mysql_query ( handler, "SELECT * FROM table" ).

===Function aliases===
A function alias is a second name for a function, which makes calling any of the original name or the alias have the same result. The new aliases introduced in version 0.5 are:
* result:num_rows() is the same as result:numrows()
* result:num_fields() is the same as result:numfields()
* result:free_result() is the same as result:free()

[[/Category:Modules.md|Category:Modules]]

[[/ru:Modules/MTA-MySQL.md|ru:Modules/MTA-MySQL]]